---
layout: post
title: A Record of Past Matters
adventure_set: From Before
adventure_number: 2
post_number: 1
---

I've often referenced in conversation events that happened several years in the past, either in passing reference or as a direct link to some claim I am making. I thought it best to give a quick overview on matters that I consider important and still remember with some clarity. Some things will be left out or simplified, and some things will not be reported on at all because I don't feel like divulging every event that ever happened here because it would take a lot of effort that I don't want to expend. This is not meant to be a direct sequence of events. Days, months, and some times years pass between the vents that transpire here, though it's generally all chronological.
 
The Errant Coalition is and was a collection of self proclaimed "heroes". Essentially a mercenary guild with the stipulation that we answer calls for help and protect people that need protecting. It's leader - or at least one of them - was Plutonk, an Asura infatuated with the fairy-tale ideals of the human Chivalry, and according to him a knight himself. The exact authenticity of an Asura being knighted is unknown to me, but I'm inclined to give him the benefit of the doubt. His unwavering commitment to optimism and said fairy-tale level ideals made him the subject of my ridicule on more than one occasion. That being said, I would stand against gods if he were next to me.

## Court of Thorns
The first experiences I had with the Coalition were in the swamps of Caledon. If my memory is accurate I hit something of a low point of misery in my life, brought about by a rocky relationship and an all-encompassing boredom. On a whim I followed Plutonk as he answered a call for aid from a Sylvari village beleaguered by assaults from a Nightmare Court named The Court of Thorns. I spent the ensuing battle against one opponent: A female Nightmare Mesmer. The duel eventually ended in my favor when I scored a heavy blow against her, setting her aflame and casting her off. She managed to teleport away, but I was without question victorious on that round. Unfortunately for me, the duel had lasted so long that when I finally turned to take stock of our situation, I saw that we had lost the battle. I'm not exactly sure what overtook me at that moment in time, but before me stood a particularly large Nightmare courtier overlooking the field not too far next to me. I took up my sword, yelled "Fuck you!" at the top of my lungs, and threw my sword at him. The way he lurched when the blade embedded itself into his flank gave me some consolation. I was then descended upon by the horde, and awoke several days later unceremoniously in a Mender's facility, broken.
 
I was invalid for several days afterwards, possibly weeks. After my recovery any reasonable person should have put up their arms and returned to civilian life. I did not. I followed Plutonk and his forming band again. The second battle in the campaign that I recall was northeast of the village we had previously fought at. Coincidentally, I fought the same Mesmer I fought previously. Though this time, she got the better of me, and ran me through with her sword. I still bear the scar from it, and every now and then I still feel the sting.
 
The last battle I recall was the last of the campaign itself: An assault on the Court's stronghold. The frontal assault which I took part in was partly a diversion to allow a secondary unit to raid the Court's prisoner pens, and free everyone they could while we held the attention of the stronghold's defenders. I don't remember the particulars of the assault itself other than it being a chaotic melee, but Ileliana was one of the rescued prisoners. It was in the messy retreat from the stronghold after the prisoner rescue had succeeded that a stray mortar shell went off not too far from my head, and nearly left me deaf in my right ear. I don't recall exactly what happened but from what I heard, I was in a state of shock when we had returned to our camp.
 
After this campaign, any reasonable person should have put up their arms and returned to civilian life. I did not. Once more I followed Plutonk and his forming band. I've asked myself why more often than I care to count. Not glory, or gold. Not because of the comradery I now shared with the Coalition or the charisma of its leaders. Certainly not for any love of the Sylvari either, or anyone else for that matter. I've asked myself this question too many times to count, each time with a different, unsatisfying answer. I suppose in the end it is frustratingly simple. I can. So I do.
 
From there, three main events stick out to me: The Gloom, The Hydra, and the Pale Mordrem.

## The Gloom
Deep within the Mists lies the Ravenheart Gloom. A realm of perpetual suffocating darkness that according to old legend is said to lead to places far worse than the Realm of Torment. It was here that the soul of a person very important to us was cast into. From within our base of operations (At that point located in one of the many massive caverns beneath Tarir), we would open a portal to the Mists, locate our quarry by using some methods I did not care to learn about, and extract as quickly as we came. Simple.
 
By virtue of being something worth writing about it wasn't that simple. We were beset by a darkness that virtually consumed what light we could give off. Magic too failed us, though I never found out why. We made do with torches and various other implements, but they were hardly enough to illuminate a five foot radius. Nonetheless we were here, and we were determined to retrieve this soul. For my part, I was useless. I went into this on the assumption that I could provide ranged support and illuminate our path, but clearly that was out of the question now. I was without any methods of defense or attack in an unknown realm that felt as if it was built upon the idea of malevolence. In the end, I ended up clinging to a Charr companion of mine by the name of Khaireeva, desperate to stay with the group by any means necessary lest I am lost to this place.
 
The soul we searched for was eventually found. By this point at least some of the party, battle-hardened against Courtiers, Mordrem, and a myriad of other foes was starting to lose its cool. But we had our target, and only needed to extract ourselves. The trip back proved to be far more of an ordeal than the trip forward. Something had noticed us. There is no description I can provide of what it was. But we all knew it was there - a writhing mass of madness that knew only to consume. We made great haste for the portal we opened, though by now this place had infected my mind and I was too much a despondent mess to be of any help. From what I remember, we eventually found our way out under threat to the portal, and snapped it closed.
 
We thought we were safe then. It was only later that we would learn the truth of the matter; The moment we had opened the portal, we doomed this place. The weakened barrier between Tyria and the Mists was pressed upon by the Gloom without our knowledge. Within a few weeks it gave way like a dam, plunging the cavern into darkness. We lacked any means of combating this encroachment. The only person well versed in the Mists was nowhere to be found. We were trapped. Those of us in the cavern at the time gathered into a mass, braved the madness surrounding us, and set up a "defense" inside a large building used to plan operations. Most of us stood at one of three entrances ready for a fight. I instead made for the center of the building, huddled underneath a table, and waited to die. It broke me. The endless madness that infected me, made me fear the dark, was here now. There was no fighting it. For all of the martial prowess the Coalition had to offer, there was nothing to be done. In a few minutes, we would be dead.
 
Salvation came at the introduction of a few Exalted with whom we were at least partially familiar. Some ability of magic they possessed allowed them to strengthen the broken barrier between Tyria and the Mists and cut off the darkness from its source. The damage however, was done. The scarred cavern we had called home for a year or more was now uninhabitable because of our mistake. And so we left the Exalted to this new responsibility we had given them, and fled north. It would take a while for me to return to some form of normalcy.
 
## The Hydra
The Hydra was, well, a hydra. I consistently tell people that I personally slew a hydra, which isn't strictly true. To set the scene, the Coalition was after what I think was a lost caravan in Elona. We discovered a hydra and assumed that this was the thing destroying the caravans. Except when we started to engage the hydra, an incredibly massive choya erupted from the ground, killed, and ate the hydra. This is not a joke. A massive choya ate the hydra. And to make matters worse, a horde of normal sized choya had immediately sprang up with what I assume was a god or king to them, and started corralling us into a small pocket. The majority of the Coalition was rather focused on breaking out of the choya's blockade of the general idea, but I decided to just kill the big choya instead. So, single handedly, I electrocuted it until it just kind of fell apart like a big watermelon put too close to a fire. I killed the thing that killed the hydra. Which is why I say I killed the hydra. You can call bullshit all you want, but you know you can't stop me.
 
## The Pale Mordrem
This could take up two or three different block entries on its own if I were to write out everything, and I've chosen to hit the key points of my experience and some background context. More information will be gleaned from conversation I guess. The Pale Mordrem was the Coalition's crown jewel: Our finest victory among so many victories. And under its weight, we collapsed.
 
Some time after Mordremoth's death, The Coalition received word from Green Company, a group of trained-from-birth Wardens, about investigating the village of Gaelwen. This village had apparently turned to the Nightmare, though unlike most of their wicked kind, these villagers remained strangely peaceful. The Court of Thorns - the same from the campaign in Caledon - had apparently been in the area as well. I myself along with several others was aboard the Last Resort - a decommissioned Pact airship that the Coalition had taken for its own and refurbished when we set out for the village. I'm afraid I can't say much about the first few hours of the affair, as I spent most of it in the gun deck of the Last Resort loading and firing the emplaced breech-loaders. I didn’t particularly know what we were fighting or what I was firing at. Eventually the Last Resort would take critical damage from a vicious, sickly looking Mordrem wyvern, though we killed it in the end, though the Last Resort would head for safer skies owing to the damage. Because most of us were not needed to operate the ship and our comrades were still on the ground in the village, I and several others went aground to help defend the village that was now under siege. And thus began the siege of Gaelwen by a new foe, the Pale Mordrem.
 
In the resulting two-day battle, we lost one member: A Charr named Khaireeva whom I was very close to. I still have the armor she gifted to me, though it stands unused as my style of combat has evolved over the years. She was killed by what we referred to as a Herald. A thin, six-limbed, magic-capable creature that only vaguely resembled a Sylvari. We fought it tooth and nail alongside the Court of Thorns, eventually felling the beast and breaking the horde's will to fight at the cost of one of our own while the rest of us barely managed better. This was the starting point for a multi-year campaign against the Pale Mordrem, and the things that had birthed them. Their story, to my knowledge, goes something like this.
 
When Mordremoth first wormed his way into the minds of the Sylvari, the “Court of Twisting Tongues” fell under his sway. When at last Mordremoth fell, at least one of their number was still alive to be freed of his influence. His name was Verve. He was left with an epiphany. The Sylvari, being of Mordremoth, had more or less a birthright to all of the monstrosities and possibilities that draconic power brings about. And Nightmare, being about reshaping the Dream, Sylvari, and the world, was best embraced by this pursuit of transformative strength at all costs. Verve in essence wished to transform the Sylvari and the Dream into his own twisted vision using Mordremoth’s power.Erudition, the former Duke of Obscurity, and Animosity, a former Knight-Overseer from the Court of Obscurity would join him in search of this apotheosis.
 
The Coalition would, over the next few months, deduce the method by which the Pale Mordrem were to be created and by extension the method by which Verve, Erudition, and Animosity would achieve their dreamt of apotheosis. The amalgamation of souls, bodies, and innate magical abilities. The Herald that killed Khaireeva would come from this process, as would the endless multitude of other Pale Mordrem that would beset us over the next few years. Essentially when we fought a Pale Mordrem, we fought a fleshcrafted horror powered by draconic magics, twisted in Verve's own sickening way.
 
Verve, Erudition, and Animosity would succeed in reaching this apotheosis. As to what they became I can't properly explain. What becomes of a Sylvari fed the souls of magical capabilities of so many corpses? Do they become a being of pure magic? Do they become as a god unto Tyria? Perhaps the blending of countless souls turns them into something else entirely. Whatever the case, these three began their fell work. Collecting, and consuming. Courts fell under their sway, outskirt villages and Skritt holds disappeared. On, and on it would go. The gathering of dead throughout the years. Forever.
 
So we took up arms against them. Such an undertaking required allies, of course. An uneasy alliance between Seraph, Peacemakers, Wardens, and the Court of Thorns was formed to oppose these monstrosities. And time and time again, we chipped at them. Assaulted and butchered the Courts that fell under their sway. Burned their corpse pits, destroyed their transformation chambers and brought low their lieutenants one by one until at last we could strike at the heart of this insanity. Where we went we left nothing alive. Left no record of their existence. What other choice could there be? Leave the methods of the Pale Mordrem so others could find and abuse them?
 
I don't remember the long series of battles that eventually gave us our chance to hunt down these three, but I recall one engagement out of them all with some clarity. There was a Court named the Court of Dread that had fallen under Erudition's sway, that both the Coalition and the Court of Thorns joined together to eliminate. Two of Dread’s number were granted powers by Erudition that in effect made them immensely powerful at the cost of their own thoughts and will. These two creatures, which we named "Keepers", were in essence an extension of Erudition's mind. We kill them like the others in the end, but the magnificent power they displayed made them an extraordinary foe to face. And this was only a fragment of the entity we meant to kill.
 
Erudition itself, I believe, was eventually destroyed by the Court of Thorns, though I doubt I could confirm such a thing. We hunted down Animosity under the caverns and caves in Maguuma utilizing a special series of technologies to rend apart his body of magic, strip his protections away, and carve his soul apart. At the moment of his "death", he wounded Shaizan, Plutonk's lover, which left her comatose. She would die several months after the end of the campaign.
 
With Animosity and Erudition dealt with, we confronted Verve himself in a grand, pitched battle. When we found him, we found what he referred to as a Dreamgate. A towering structure of stone and magic that, to the best of my knowledge, was made to allow Verve to twist the Sylvari Dream in its totality. I'm not well versed on the Dream itself, but it appears to be that Verve's reasoning was as follows: While Verve was effortlessly tearing apart the physical world, the Dream is the realm of the Pale Tree and Mordremoth. For all the power his monstrous form gave him he could never hope to touch it. The Dreamgate, I think, was his imagined answer to it. What exactly he intended to do remains unknown to me, thankfully. But whatever it was, regardless of its  probable success or failure, the attempt could not be allowed to occur. Verve, at this point a towering monster of pure magic, had to be destroyed, here and now.
 
So our alliance threw ourselves at him. Not that it made a damn bit of a difference at this point. Verve was far beyond our abilities. Small pieces of himself broke off to form a horde of spectral warriors whose lines we could not pierce, leaving Verve to sit and lord over us our imminent defeat. Victory comes to us, in the end, through a peculiar strategy. The apotheosis that Verve sought has led him to become a collection of souls. These souls that make up this hivemind of sorts must in some way be urged to fight against the thing that binds them through any methods. In other words, disharmony must be introduced to the hivemind. We held our ground against the endless horde of spectres for what felt like hours, at one point nearly losing myself to an assault on my mind along with many that stood with me. This, I think, was its eventual undoing. As certain members of our parties were briefly linked to the hivemind, I believe we infected it. The hivemind faltered. The spectres that endlessly assailed us fell apart. The precise defenses blocking spells, cannon, and bullets from reaching anywhere near the Dreamgate and the main body of magic paused.
 
It remains unknown to me what exactly killed Verve. Whether the hivemind simply tore itself apart, or the last ditch everything-goes assault on the Dreamgate and Verve was the deathblow. But we assumed that this lapse in Verve’s abilities would not last forever. We had a chance, and we may never get another one. So we threw everything at it. For me, I convinced a friend by the name of Zuifa to feed magic into a spell I intended to cast. It was likely that the sudden introduction of such a large portion of magic would destabilize the spell and potentially kill me. I decided that if we destroyed Verve it was worth it and at the base of the towering Dreamgate I let loose a great blast of fire to bring down the structure. As I predicted, it cost me. The backwash of the spell burned me. My extremities would bear the worst of it, in the end losing both hands and feet as they were deemed too damaged to save. But we won. It was indeed worth it.
 
The Coalition would, in the immediate aftermath, disperse. We rested. Some of us pursued their own goals elsewhere. Some would simply leave. Shaizan's death in the following months would break Plutonk's spirit. He would take two of our members: Sheska and Sulis with him. Without a word to us, the three of them vanished. And so there I was. Maimed and crippled. Victorious. A hero, perhaps. And for the first time in a long time, so very alone.