---
layout: post
title: Ice
adventure_set: Ice
adventure_number: 4
post_number: 1
---

Several weeks passed since we helped the farmer. Illy returned to her work up north in Bjora where heaps of terrible things were no doubt happening. I returned to my wandering Divinity's Reach doing nothing, annoying the local populace for money or coffee, whichever suited me at the time. The knowledge that I could use magic again sparked at least some interest in use again, which relieved some of the perpetual boredom I was experiencing.
 
Things progressed as they had been for the last few months, until Illy's next return. Upon this next return, she gave me an orb of eternal ice. A perfect sphere of it, too. I'd never seen the like before, and the most I had ever seen was a small sliver with which I used in a necklace I made for Sperra. Hindsight tells me I should probably destroy it and make a new one in case this all gets worse.
 
Regardless, it wasn't like the orb was immediately causing problems. I had assumed that the orb was inert. A prize. I would create a new necklace for Sperra, with more ice In it. Fortunately, I never got around to it. One week passed since I was given it, and then started the dreams.
 
I was alone in a dark, stone labyrinth. The walls blended in the atmosphere such that I could see not where they ended. but further up, I saw stars. It was cold. I felt numb as if I had been in the snow too long. I wandered, trance-like and not of my own volition. A crow with four red glowing eyes tracks my movements. It leads me through the labyrinth.
 
I hear fighting around me. I follow the crow towards the noise. The walls turn to a blue and unnatural ice. The path leads downward, and at length leads to a large cavern. Illy is there, fighting another version of herself. Both are coated in ice. I don't know what happens when I intervene. If I wait, on the far wall I see a leviathan. A massive creature in the ice. Ileliana and her copy stab each other. It seems fatal. They fall. I fall. I wake up, and I can not return to sleep.
 
When awake, I hear whispers. Not those of Jormag, the sweet and honeyed words tempting the hearer to give in. These are far off, mumbled words I can't make out as if they are coming from another room. This continues for two weeks. After dealing with this for some length of time I start writing down the dream, and I show Illy these notes. I do this in the Whisper, and when Illy sees them I see her grow furious. As per usual she just runs off, without telling me a damn thing about what's going on and why. I am left there, now terrified that something is terribly wrong. I was told previous that a Norn called "Seeker Sifreidt Ravenheart" whom I took to calling Sif, had some contact with Illy beforehand. Lacking any other real options, I frantically sent letters to the Priory for her support. She answered two days later, and found me in the Whisper where we made our plans. These plans consisted entirely of "I'll handle finding her, just be ready". Great. I went to my usual method. Swords, basic things like some bandages, food. I also packed my revolver and rifle with me. Two days after Sif came to me first, we left.
 
We tracked Illy's whereabouts along the mountains of the Far Shiverpeaks. Patrols, garrisons, and others had reported her movements well enough, but along the way we ran into Svanir, Icebrood, and other wildlife, which began draining my resources faster than I would have liked.  It took two days before we found what felt like the cave Ileliana had entered, and it was hardly upon entering the place that we were beset upon by Icebrood. Four of them came down from the cave ceiling - elementals all of them. Sif created a barrier rather quickly, and I began taking them down with well placed shots from the left to the right. Upon the second, Sif informed me to use my magic instead of the rifle. I ignored this, and on the third Icebrood I was told once more to switch to magic - and then told why. I was very upset to learn that ten more Icebrood were coming from the cave ceilings through a large crack or rift going upwards and she did not tell me until now. Regardless of my feelings at the time I put my rifle onto my back, drew up my sword, and with a quick burst of flame I threw from my hands with the focus being my sword, I blew apart the four first elementals, and curved the flame up into the cavern to dispatch the Icebrood coming from the crack above us. I assumed that would end the entire ordeal, and we could go back to walking. Unfortunately life had other plans, and a massive Icebrood goliath bashed it way from the hole the other Icebrood came from, and crashed into the floor above us. My magic weakened the ice below us though, and instead of engaging in combat the goliath shattered the flooring, and all of us careened into the pitch black of the caverns below.
 
I awoke, alone, in darkness, like I first would awaken in the dream. No noise but those I made, no light but those I created. It was wholly unpleasant to awaken in those circumstances, and for some time I just sat there, gathering my thoughts and trying - and failing - to not panic. There was no one coming to save me though, and despite the worst thoughts running in my head I had no choice but to walk the caverns. Within the first few seconds of walking, the orb began to glow. It began to whisper. To speak. Within the first fifteen minutes, I could make out that it was chanting in a language I did not know. Then it whispered to me as a Mesmer would. A clear, male, calm voice. I talked to it. It answered. Not that the fucking thing was any help, all of its answers were cryptic and devoid of any practical application. Then, a crow came to me. A normal one. But a crow nonetheless. As I walked, despite the minor differences in appearance, and the presence of the orb, it was so very close to being like the dream. This became a running theme later on, but I walked on having what conversation I could until at last I found Sif again. The raven would end up being hers, sent into the caverns to search for me. With her was the goliath that started this mess, which she had killed before I arrived. Frankly I would have been happy to see anything that didn't want to kill me. And so Sif and I traveled the labyrinth together, until we came upon the same cavern I saw in my dream.
 
Not strictly the same cavern really, but it felt like it could be. There were three things in this cavern. First, direct ahead, was a thin layer of transparent ice with a passageway in the middle. Beyond this was Illy. I saw no clone fighting her. Instead, she was standing there half frozen with ice hanging off of her, tapping her sword (That thing still freaks me out) upon the ice rhythmically. Clearly she was under some sort of spell. Beyond Illy was a wall of opaque ice, but which reflected our vision back on us. A mirror. Sif and I conferred with one another about what to do, but we were both clueless, so she proclaimed that she vowed to keep me safe, and entered through the passage into the chamber which Illy was in. Once she entered, she followed the same pattern as Illy as if struck by the same spell. Tapping her mace against the ice. Marvelous.
 
The orb was an unhelpful shit, and lacking any other options I threw myself into the passageway, hoping it killed the orb first and then me, quickly. It ended up not killing any of us. Upon entering I realized that what I saw previous was merely an illusion, or the enchantment was one more complex than a simple "take control and freeze them" thing. To my left was Sif, with a guardian barrier around her as she tried to stave off a black smoke. The smoke was clearly malevolent, trying furiously to pierce the barrier against Sif's efforts. To my right was Illy. Her sword was behind her, acting as a sort of sentry. Illy was In front wielding two battle axes. Arrayed against her were clones, except completely consumed by Nightmare. They came ad infinitum, ignoring her and rushing towards the passageway I had come. If one slipped by, her sword unleashed a blast of force to send it backwards.
 
All ignored me. None touched me. The smoke did not affect me. Lacking any knowledge of what to do, I walked to the only thing that stood out: The mirror wall, at the far end of the cavern. Upon reaching it I saw myself, though a more tired version. Beyond me was a totem obviously of Svanir make. I figured that was our target, but I did not make the connection that this thing was actually a mirror. I assumed the Svanir totem was actually past, and not with us in the chamber. A long conversation with the sphere began. It was an infuriating conversation. I did not know how to break the mirror, I did not know what would stop the flow of smoke and clones. I was without options, and direction. So, I began trying to break the mirror with my fists. It did nothing. Lacking any better ideas I just kept hitting it. The orb began trying to ask me questions about life - its meaning. If I am happy as things are - being without any real purpose. Being… As I am now. It continually occurred to me that I was not. And that despite the intense danger that followed us, and the fear that had overcome me so many times, I would choose it instead of wallowing in my own misery in the Whisper trying to convince people to buy me coffee for the day. I began a belligerent shouting match with the sphere, who maintained that infuriatingly calm tone of voice. Again and again I struck the mirror, at first to no effect. abusing fire magic in the processit eventually cracked, then shattered. When it did, so too did the Svanir totem.
 
I don't know why. I did nothing spectacular to the mirror, or the totem. But it gave. The clones vanished. The smoke with them. I turned to the totem, now in pieces In the middle of the room, and unleashed a conflagration upon it so intense that it scored into the ice floor, and when I relented no trace of the totem was left. As I wanted it. Illy collapsed of exhaustion shortly later. Sif appeared confused that there was a totem. Gone too was the sphere, in its place an iron key, and a far off laugh of Grandma Sheerwood. I kept that part to myself for the time being. The trip home is uneventful, which was a nice change of pace.
 
Grandma Sheerwood is a creepy as hell swamp witch in Godslost. The Coalition worked with her some years previous, chiefly attempting to clear away the dead that had begun walking in Godslost, brought back by some strange and foul magics that I never cared very much to deal with or learn about. My own relation to her was that, upon first meeting her, she gave me a locked box with no key to accompany it. She was a horrid sort. Hunched over, spent too much time with crows. She did give out cookies once though, which I was happy about. Some crows landed upon Sperra during the cookies being handed out, who then panicked and began rolling around to get them away from her. I ended up fixing her hair while she ate one of the cookies as recompense.
 
The key itself I knew first when the Coalition delved into a labyrinth in Maguuma, chasing an expedition that had gone dark. That's another story entirely and one that I rank as 3rd most fucking horrifying thing I have ever been a part of. The key itself was in a journal I was not supposed to have looked at, but did anyway because the owner was not looking. The journal gave a description of the key I sought, and a potential location being somewhere in Grenth's Cathedral in Orr. But, no more information could be gleaned.
 
I am unsure as to why it ended up here. I don't know the connection between Sheerwood and the totem. I don't know the Sphere's origin, purpose, or frankly a lot of things about this entire mess. What I found in the chest after it was unlocked needs its own entry.
