---
layout: post
title: The Hunt
adventure_set: A long, strange story
adventure_number: 5
post_number: 1
---

A Pact patrol was assaulted on the courier and supply lanes leading from Hoelbrak to the Bjora front lines. So, the Coalition took up the problem. Three of us went. Kasielle, a human Mesmer of limited experience in martial pursuits. And Sif, the Norn who accompanied me previously.
 
Given the road to Bjora from Hoelbrak is awfully long, simply going to the assumed location of the attack by use of waypoints wasn't an option. An expedition was necessary.
 
The trip was predominantly uneventful for the first hour. Bitter cold, little conversation, and quite a long while of walking. The weather progressively worsened the further north we went, and soon enough making any sort of headway ended up being a complete slog. Progress continued though, and at length we came upon a lodge that was utterly ruined by what I could tell was an elementalist's doing. Ice shards as big as tree trunks skewered the entire piece, and inside there was no sign of life to be had. The attack must have been several weeks old at the earliest, for the corpse - nailed to the far wall by more massive ice shards - was practically iced over. His axe lay at his feet. I suspected it to be some form of trap, really, but through some clever Mesmer tricks done by Kasielle, the events that lead up to the Norn man's death lay before us. He bravely - and pointlessly - attempted to stave off some unseen enemy that he appeared to be familiar with. He died immediately. His family, in those moments, fled out some sort of back entrance. We found their frozen corpses a few yards from a cave that they were presumably running towards. One adult female, three children.
 
Also near the corpses, was a destroyed wagon. Whatever struck it was powerful enough, but no occupants were seen. I believed the death of the lodge and the upturned wagon to be unrelated, and no corpses of any travelers were seen. A campfire inside the previously mentioned cave clearly stated to me that they were still alive, and following the cave branch that led deeper into the mountain seemed like the best chance at finding them, as there were no tracks leading out into the snow again. As an aside, there were also quite a few drawings made by some presumably dead tribe of Grawl there, but I cared little for them and did not observe them closely.
 
As for the cave branch itself, we were attacked by a large grouping of spiders on the way. They dropped from the cavern ceiling - one landing upon Sif's head. Two landed nearby, and came at me. A simple matter I thought - and I used my control over fire to burn them. Kas - I assume she was fumbling in panic - snuffed that flame before it could do its work, and they descended upon me. I struggled with those damn things for what felt like hours, unaware of what was happening around me in the chaos. Eventually, I managed another spell to blast them with flame and send them into a burned heap. Apparently by that point, Kasielle had already killed all but the one that Sif was struck by. That one Sif butchered personally. Two kills to my name. Rather than staying in that fucking place any more than I had to, I followed the branch further until I and my party stumbled back into the frigid wasteland of the Shiverpeaks.
 
Great. Well, it wasn't the caves, so I was happy. With some looking around, we determined that we ended up in what appeared to be the ground floor of a canyon. And thankfully, we found tracks. We didn't have to go far before we found that it was actually a human child that made them - frozen and blubbering like an idiot. Kasielle ran towards him, and the twit screamed and started running away. My decidedly terrible luck continued as his screams attracted a starving wolf party. One of the bastards jumped down from the cliffside and chased after the child, while one got behind me and bit at me. Thankfully he only got his teeth into my pack, and I managed to slip away before Kas struck it with her sword in an oddly graceful manner. Wounded, it retreated. The wolf that chased after the child was caught by Sif before it could do any damage, and subsequently dealt with. She also calmed the idiot child. Well done for her. I kind of hated how she calmed him down, but can't articulate why. I decided to wait, and just watch the canyon so I didn't have to deal with that at all.
 
At length, we continued making our way out of the canyon until we were once more met with the rolling frozen hills of the Shiverpeaks. The trail had run cold until we stumbled upon a Raven shrine, which with Kas's Mesmer abilities like the one used previously with the axe. We learned very little, except that the a human woman - assumed to be a traveler - was alive nearby. To the north, with more searching, we found a destroyed campsite. Large creatures did the work, butchering two inhabitants and presumably taking the survivors prisoner. I didn't know what they were, but the tracks were fresh and damn large. We found a Jotun crouching over some loot some ways away, surmised that this was probably one of the things that attacked the camp, and with surprise on our side we ambushed and killed it. I believe I landed the killing blow with a shot into its neck. There were certainly more Jotun around and I would have assumed they would have heard the fighting.
 
Further north, under a natural stone bridge, we find two more Jotun eating an elk under a bridge while giving chase to the larger party - apparently they didn't hear us - and we kill them both with surprise still on our side. Kasielle utilized stealth to bring down large icicles formed under the bridge on top of them. Gruesome, but effective.
 
Further on, we ran into a third party, this time numbering three. No stealth could be done here; We spotted each other at the same time. I chose the middle of the three, and fired at his skull. Unfortunately it proved ineffective. His helmet deflected the shot, and one moment later they charged. I struck him again, this time choosing to ignore the crude armor they wore and go for something that would ruin his day. I settled on the rest of his head, and my next shot blew apart his chin. Incredibly, he weathered the injury and came on. Kasielle and Sif engaged their opponents, and I lost track of them in the ensuing fight. I was quick to settle my opponent though. He cut at my head, and I quickly dodged, withdrew my pistol, and blew apart his right kneecap. At this point, the brute exclaimed once more, and did not rise again. The sight was wholly unpleasant, but upon viewing the status of those with me I moved to help them. First, I ran to Sif, and shot her opponent in the leg. Unfortunately he retaliated as I fired my second shot, and the bullet deflected off of Sif's gauntlets as he struck me in the leg with his hammer. At this point I went down, the Jotun grabbed me, and struck me again with his hammer, sending me down the slope. I was in a great amount of pain from then on, though I am thankful I didn't suffer a more catastrophic injury. Meanwhile the remaining two Jotun were finally dispatched, and we made our way to what appeared to be their camp, located on a cliffside.
 
There was only one Jotun there at the camp; A shaman. Among him were various prisoners, one of which was the mother of the idiot child we saved earlier. I wanted to tell her that her child was indeed an idiot, but the Jotun had to be dealt with first. Sif charged. I charged. Both of us, at that point, were struck with some kind of spell. It locked our bodies in place, and while Kas was seemingly unaffected she made no immediate move to attack. She was exhausted and terrified, I suspect. The next few moments - which I assumed to be my last - were spent thinking of Sperra. Mostly that I was upset she would find an out-of-date letter saying my goodbyes, and frankly I just want to go home.
 
I was turned away from Kasielle, but apparently she rallied, and struck at the shaman with Mesmer spells. He responded with surprise, and then a bolt, or spear, of some vile shadow magic. She fell. The spell holding both I and Sif released. I hit the ground, drew my pistol once more, and fired all four rounds I still had at him. One to the chest, one to the stomach, one to the shoulder. The last hit his cheek, and blew it apart. He was quite clearly stunned, and Sif took the opportunity to crush his skull.
 
What followed was a long process of sorting out the survivors, getting Kasielle back to Divinity's Reach. I've chosen to exclude them, as they were uneventful. I returned home.
