---
layout: post
title: The Other Hunt
adventure_set: A long, strange story
adventure_number: 5
post_number: 2
---

Plutonk has returned. As has Sheska and Sulis, in some form. I don't know what to think of it. For those who aren’t aware of these three, Plutonk is one of the founders of the Coalition. Sulis and Sheska are Charr necromancers with wildly different skill sets and temperaments. Sheska is calm, while Sulis is volatile. Sulis and I have tried to kill each other in the past. Sheska was and is a friend. Plutonk is complicated, owing to his one year disappearance after the loss of his lover, Shaizan.
 
At any rate, the three of them joined myself and Ileliana in the search for a noble turned sailor. Sailors in the area he was last seen have been going missing at sea, with their belongings and in some cases even clothing washing up without them some days later. The two were probably not linked together,  but investigating both at the same time was a simple matter, so there we went into the Bloodcoast.
 
So the four of us traveled to a small trade post some miles south of Lion's Arch in the more wild areas of the jungle. We spoke rather briefly with the one who ran it - a very large Norn named 'Bo'. The general situation that pirates have begun moving more inland for unknown reasons. A recently established band had attacked the trade post recently, and driven them out of their lodgings to the south. The noble sailor and several others apparently had gone missing either during or following the attack. Great. Well nothing is ever that simple.
 
I wasn't sad about leaving the camp really. Sure, we were headed into territory generally only colonized by Skritt, Dredge, and dead things. And pirates, apparently. But, no one working at the camp even said hello to me and some old Asura glared at me like an asshole. So fuck them really, I was happy to be gone. A few hundred yards of marching into the jungle brought us to a small set of buildings. Two in particular, damaged and ransacked. What little remained there was of startlingly little use. Some ledgers detailing recent shipments, profits et cetera. The only thing of mild use was a journal of Bo's, but even that only made passing mention of our quarry.
 
From there, we didn't have much guidance on where to head to, so some scouting was necessary. Two bodies were found even further to the south, with a large message of "Scrungle me Crungus" Written on it. I still don't know what the bloody fuck that means, but it was definitely some pirate shit that I don't care about. Anyway, we followed the trail even /further/ south of the corpses, and happened upon what appeared to be one of their camps in a grove of trees. By the looks of it, they were still celebrating their success, and we evaded their scouts with ease for the time being.
 
I scaled up a nearby cliff to provide some form of overview, while the four below discussed their plans. Whatever they decided, Sheska wandered along into the camp. Once the camp was aroused to her presence, she was immediately accosted. The conversation that transpired I did not hear, and in the meantime I busied myself with scanning the surroundings with the scope upon my rifle. Two patrols through the trees were spotted after some time, each containing two members headed in our direction in a clockwise and counterclockwise fashion. I alerted my companions. Ileliana and Plutonk had set up to the right, and Sulis on the left. The ones on the left were ignored by Sulis. Plutonk and Ileliana dispatched their foes, though at the time I could not tell the manner in which they were subdued.
 
The exact timing of these events is lost on me now, but I know for sure that the patrol on the right hand side were dealt with, and some time afterwards Sheska was struck by one of the pirates. I was alerted to this by the scream of the pirate that struck her. Sheska was facing away from me, and it was clear that a sabre had struck her. But the pirate seemingly could not remove his blade, and… Something was crawling up his arm.
 
All hell broke loose then. Plutonk was teleported behind the group and began scything them down, Sulis attacked the patrol and I had no function. They were surrounded, panicking, and many were running. It was then that I was struck by a large, pink parrot.
 
Plutonk shouted something, but I was far too concerned with surviving to hear it properly. I warded off the parrot, and struck at it with a burst of flame once I had the slightest distance from it. It was avoided effortlessly, much to my surprise, and it struck me. The beak came down upon my ear, and tore a fairly large chunk out. The pain was debilitating, and in the brief moment I was stunned, it clawed into my face. I was lucky that it did not take out an eye, but I could feel the deep gashes loosing blood down across my split lips to my chin. I then loss my footing, and fell from the cliff.
 
The parrot did not follow, and instead struck out away from me towards the camp again. I hobbled my way towards Sheska, Plutonk, and Ileliana. They by that time had finished against the pirates, and many lay dead or wounded. A fire pit in the center came dangerously close to some poorly placed ammunitions, but thankfully we avoided a catastrophe there, thanks to Plutonk. At the same time Plutonk was working on the fire, a massive Norn with what looked like an actual cannon - probably three-pounder - on his shoulder. Very pink and very flamboyant. He turned to two men standing next to them, and gave them something he called 'candy'.
 
They were some thirty meters away. Once the candy was consumed, the two humans crossed that distance faster than I have ever seen before. I blinked, and the attack was already well underway. Illy was struck by the first, and rammed into a tree some thirty yards behind us. The second had assaulted both Sulis and Plutonk, while Sheska was still trying to fix my face. I didn't see how the other died, but I drew up my pistol and unloaded every shot into the back of the human attacking Illy, who by this point had been bludgeoned to hell and back. He didn't even flinch. Sheska began violently ripping away at both of them with her blood magic. I reloaded, and unloaded all six shots again. And finally, the once-human sank. Twelve bullets. I suspect that if it were not for the efforts of Sheska and Illy, he would still have not gone down.
 
In any case, he was dead. And I was happy he was dead. The other had been dispatched as well by a combination of Plutonk's sword skill and Sulis' brutal necromancy, and no more enemies lay upon the field to challenge us. Good. In our battered state I suspected that we would not stand up to another one of them. Sheska returned to tending to my face and ear, while Illy and Plutonk gathered the two men they subdued previous after gathering their wits, and subjected them to some Mesmer spells to pull away their thoughts. At length, with Sulis commenting on the time it took, We determined that this band was called the "Not-so-dead-men ''. Not very apt for those dead on the field to be honest. The Norn with the cannon was named "Cannonmaster Morey ''. Once this information had been gleaned it was decided there was little else here for us. From there, we quickly made for the camp.
 
The rest is uneventful. We returned to camp, divulged what we had learned, and in turn learned little from the trade post. They set off to retake the lost ground, and we briefly regrouped at a bar in Lion's Arch. And from there, to home.