---
layout: post
title: Murders in Rata Sum
adventure_set: A long, strange story
adventure_number: 5
post_number: 3
---

My next meeting with the others of the Coalition - this containing everyone including Kasielle but excluding Sheska - was done in the same poorly upkept bar in Divinity's Reach as every other one. And this time, we opted to chase after a serial killer in Rata Sum as both what was happening in the Shiverpeaks and in Bloodtide had no pressing further developments.
 
Koko ended up being our liaison this time as Illy went to Bloodtide looking for information. Koko, for reference, is the most experienced medical personnel that the Coalition has. A very good Necromancer as well.
 
For the task at hand, a string of linked together killings in Rata Sum had drawn the attention of the Order of Whispers. We were sought out as a possible solution given our reputation of getting shit done, but considering the relative kill count we acted on this task last. In that time, a Peacemaker had been killed, which finally drew that organization's attention and resources into play. So, we headed into Rata Sum to meet with them. Fortunately, the Peacemaker working with us knew us from previous work and there was enough mutual trust to get to work quickly. For what it's worth, I didn't care about most of it. I learned who they killed; A professor, an Inquest operative, a progeny, and this Peacemaker.
 
What followed next was a long series of theories that I don't want to record because you can probably think of them all on your own. The progeny ended up being the most interesting victim, and Koko surmised that the progeny was not the intended target: It was a professor close to them. Unfortunately the school associated with the professor was giving up no information, so in classic fashion we decided to break the law and steal the records. In the interests of not incriminating myself in anything else I'm not going to talk about those 'other times'.
 
So, we made our way quickly to the school with the following plan. Kasielle and Sulis, being not Asura, would fuck off. Plutonk would act as a hired guard because he doesn't like lying and somehow this makes him feel better (he made us promise payment of one copper piece for his guarding services I think. Whatever.), I would be Koko's assistant (Which I negotiated up to partner), and Koko herself was an investigator from the Peacemakers. We very quickly made our way in, given the schoolmaster didn't want to fuck with the Peacemakers and he was probably already having a bad day and or week. We summoned up a reason to go to the server room and started working when they left us alone. Koko had a rather interesting method of working with the server which is important later. In short, she can link herself to the system via cable. Don't ask for explanations because I don't have any.
 
We delved into the system and found precious little. I did, however, find myself growing increasingly concerned, as if something was terribly, terribly wrong. And in fact something was. At the height of this uncomfortable feeling, I saw something. Eyes, in fact. Staring out at me from what I thought was the terminal's screen. It was at this point that I assumed Koko to be in extreme amounts of danger, so I tore free the cord connecting her to the terminal. This caused her to spasm, and fall. Frothing at the mouth. I knew she would recover within the hour. One or two moments later I realized that I had made a rather unfortunate mistake though. The pair of eyes that I had thought were staring from the terminal were not in fact from the terminal. What I was really seeing was the head of an Asura, staring unblinkingly at me, wedged between what appeared to be two server towers.
 
The lights shut off, the terminal flickered the signifier of our killer - a skull with a spider crawling from the mouth - and then we were bathed in a deep, red light. I could hear some measure of panic on the comms from outside, but did not make anything useful out. I was summoning up as much courage as I could to inch my way over to the corpse. Slower and surely I made my way over. Getting within an arms length before I realized that again I was in error. This was not a head, it was a body. And it was alive. I was suddenly very certain of this fact when the head moved, and the entire thing shuddered and vanished into the darkness.
 
It was at this point that I was freaking the holy fuck out, because a not-corpse with what looked like a myriad of golem replacements just came to god damn mother fucking life, holy shit please get me the fuck out of here. Also when we tried the door it was bolted shut. God damnit.
 
So there we were, staring around like morons while Koko frothed against the door we dragged her to. Plutonk and I stared into the red and black. I had my sword and revolver out. Waiting for it to strike. At one point or another we began hearing yelling and knocking on the door stating that they were going to open up, and we should lay down our weapons when they did. That was fucking stupid so I ignored it.
 
Fortunately for me the creature decided it wanted to take on the most armored opponent first, and descended upon Plutonk, trying to wrench off his helmet and probably head with it. The thing was as fast as it was gruesome, and before I knew it Plutonk was on the ground struggling with some strange, partially decomposed Asura linked together with augmetics. There was no way this thing was truly alive. A simple teleportation with use of my control over air, and I got behind it while it was busy attacking Plutonk. I assumed that the spine of this thing played a very important part in its movements and general operation like any living creature, so I struck at it with my blade and severed it cleanly. I looked cool as fuck, have no doubt. It fell over the next instant, legs twitching ever so slightly. I used my revolver to ensure the twitching was ended before turning to Plutonk. He was no worse for wear, though his comm unit was definitely damaged.
 
And then the door opened. The lockdown lifted, as did the red light. The ungrateful fuck agents of the Arcane Eye walked in, leveling guns at us, demanding that we stand down. I complied in the slowest manner I could think of, which was taking every single piece of my equipment and painstakingly looking it over. The entire process took five minutes and I stared at the agent the entire time with what I clearly remember was complete disdain. Plutonk and Koko were 'secured' by then, and teleported away. When I was finished they put chains around my arms, and a collar around my neck. I decided to ask immediately if they could take them off now, and they told me no.
 
I mean. It was worth a shot. I ended up in some oppressively white cell, where I sat for an indeterminate length of time. Eventually everyone including Kasielle and Sulis were drawn out again to meet the Eye agents that had "captured" us all. Sulis had a broken jaw, though I did not know how or where it happened. Kasielle seemed more or less as we had left her. I decided I didn't like these agents, because that undead creature thing - which for reference was now in some sort of tube within view - somehow made it into a facility they were watching without them even fucking suspecting it. Frankly, I think I deserve their job, since apparently they can't do it. Skipping the boring negotiations in which I told them they sucked because they did and get this collar off of me, they now deem us "assets". Well I deem them assholes. But now we're working together. I guess I can say I have the honor of being the first of us all to catch and kill a tool of the murderer. I say a tool because my current pattern of thought tells me that the poorly constructed, half decayed wreck of what was once an Asura was in no condition to have complex thoughts. Someone I think was controlling it, and whoever they are have a decent grasp on fleshcrafting, golemancy, and golem systems in general. Whatever the case, I alone at the time of writing this have so much as laid a hand on the damn thing, so I think this makes me the best out of the lot of us.
