---
layout: post
title: Madness in Rata Sum
adventure_set: A long, strange story
adventure_number: 5
post_number: 4
---

**On Strekka’s suggestion: Warning. Contains gore.**

Several weeks passed since the debacle where I dispatched a golem-like creature in Rata Sum. We were eventually alerted by Koko that a breakthrough in the murder cases had finally been achieved, and a meeting location in the less savory sections of Rata Sum had been selected. Myself, Sulis, Plutonk, and Kasielle arrived at the meeting place, waiting for Koko. She did not appear. Given our location I immediately suspected foul play and retreated over to a group of vines that I determined to be a defensible location, while the others stood around like morons. At the very least Kasielle wasn't completely idle, finding a vial of embalming fluid hidden amongst some stones where we all gathered previously. Later, I learned that the vial was actually of Koko's make. At the time I was of the opinion that this meeting was a setup and we were about to be ambushed, but had I known it was Koko's vial, I would have assumed abduction.
 
No ambush came and over time a set of items, those being a precise magnification glass, a power crystal that looked like it would have fit into Koko's gauntlet, and a necromancer's rune were discovered in a search of the immediate area. Sulis also discovered a corpse hidden behind a wall but this ended up just being an act of murder not related to our case. Regardless, while Sulis was talking to a ghost or some shit and I was standing around being uncomfortable, Kasielle and Plutonk went off in another direction. I'm unaware as to what they did, but Kasielle had found Koko's gauntlet hidden in some overhanging wires and stone connectors above a bridge overlooking a chasm into the truly dark parts of Rata Sum. Plutonk got there first, and I arrived about ten seconds later.
 
Plutonk has the gauntlet in his hands just as I arrive. A figure leaps down from the rafters an instant later. A dead-eyed, stitched abomination of an Asura not unlike the one previously encountered hits the bridge, grabs the gauntlet, and leaps into the darkness. For a moment I'm stunned that we didn't see the damn thing sooner. Plutonk starts to say something about portals, but I've already determined that I am going to hunt this thing the fuck down. So I leap off the edge, and use my control over air to provide a method of teleportation right next to the creature. My sword and pistol are in my hand at this point. However, the moment I come out of transit and begin to swing, a necromancer's bolt strikes me. I am suddenly winded. Unable to fight.
 
It is at this point that Kasielle and Plutonk come through a portal of Kasielle's make. The creature flees. Plutonk begins to leap after it, utilizing his armor's enhancements to make bounding these distances easy to do. Sulis is as of yet unseen, and I switch to my rifle as I catch my breath. Over the next thirty seconds, the creature has evaded our every movement until I manage to wing it with a shot from my rifle, causing it to stumble. Plutonk leaps, stumbles, and ends up grasping onto the edge of the platform, unable to pull himself up. Kasielle and myself are staring some yards away on another platform entirely. Sulis then gains some courage, jumps from high above, and crashes into the platform containing the creature. It breaks, and both Sulis and the creature careen into the forgotten depths of the city.
 
I task Kasielle with helping Plutonk, who fails spectacularly and renders herself unconscious with a failed portal. She falls into the darkness, because nothing good ever happens. God damnit. I leap into the darkness, leaving Plutonk to his fate. Except not actually, I teleport to ground level with some handy use of air magic, beating both him and Kasielle to the finish. I arrive in a near lightless chasm deep beneath Rata Sum, where it appears that there are sacks of meat hanging from hooks and chains all around me. Ignoring this for the time being I then switch to water and create falling water pools to catch both of them and slow their descent. Sulis by the time I got there had already struck the ground, snapping the spine of the creature which lay under her, twitching. Somehow she was relatively uninjured much to my dismay. When Plutonk's and Kasielle's safety is assured, I turn to my surroundings to take stock of where we are as the creature is no longer determined to be a threat.
 
I quickly realize that we are not in some random chasm, but a butcher's lair. Along the cave walls are stacks of books referencing medical procedures and necromantic rituals, and various medical equipment - mostly saws designed to cut bone, flesh, et cetera. Body parts of mostly Asura in different stages of decay and damage line the place as if they were failed experiments tossed to the side. But, what I truly found myself staring at were the aforementioned sacks of meat. You probably already figured out it wasn't just meat, but if you didn't then this is what I found: Corpses. Many corpses. Asura mostly, but I saw other races as well. Some of them were sawed and hewn, drained of blood and staring open-eyed blankly at the chasm walls. Some, chained to the walls, were seemingly being repaired. Body parts being sewn onto them and married with grotesque forms of technological enhancements. A few looked near completion, as if they were going to become this monster's next minions to wreak havoc with. My mind ran blank as panic and disgust shattered my thoughts. I fought down the urge to vomit, and composed myself rather quickly on the idea that I will simply not think about it for the time being. It worked for the most part. That's probably a bad thing. Anyway I turned to the books and let the others handle themselves. Reading helped too.
 
I learned at length that this was an amateur, butchering the living to put back together. An outcast in all forms, tossed aside by Rata Sum as it does to so many others it deems unworthy. This one, however, was more interesting than the others. I found two journals. One described the experiments he conducted, the other his personal thoughts. Most aren't worth repeating. The interesting part I saw was that his writing improved drastically over time. At first, it was abhorrent. A scrawling, scratchy mass of jagged and misshapen letters. By the end it was like any well crafted essay on a morbid topic. All throughout the journal there was some kind of devotion of this creature to a particular person: "Alyssa Mogdraon". The Jotun we killed several months ago spoke of a Mogdraon as well, which I found distinctly disturbing. Apparently this Mogdraon person "put him back together", and that previously he was "broken". Very off putting. I also learned that the child he killed suffered from some sort of mental ailment, alienating him from his peers. He "helped" him too, saying that "He will never be lonely again."
 
Eventually I ran out of patience for the things, and turned back to the group. Sulis was arguing with the dead who no doubt pleaded for release, while Plutonk tried to comfort her. Kasielle had the creature's head in her lap. It was dying. Bile dripped from its lips and its wounds. It whimpered. Then it spoke. We learned rather quickly that this was not just a puppet, it was the master. As twisted as his creations and just as hideous. He expressed the same devotion to 'Her' - I assume 'her' to mean Mogdraon. I pressed for as much information that I could, but in the end we got nothing that the journals did not already tell us. These experiments were for Mogdraon. All done in her name. As his last moments drew close, he said that he was tired. He said he was only trying to help, and that he had helped. Then, he weakly called out for his mother, and was still. Kasielle stood up, clearly at the end of her rope with grief.
 
I put a bullet into its skull to ensure it never got up again. We moved on in search of Koko. Thankfully, we found her rather quickly in a chamber. She was surrounded by three blue glowing power crystals on obelisks. She was unconscious, surrounded by dimly glowing runes that Sulis conveyed later were of a very ancient and powerful make. In the end Sulis destroyed the runic circle, which awakened Koko and we very quickly found our way into the more respectable levels of Rata Sum. Our reports were delivered, and I went home.
 
Thus ends this horrifying chapter. However, there is one other thing of note. Upon the walls of the chamber that Koko was kept in, I saw writing. The mathematical prowess I possessed gave me an insight as to what it was, and I exclaimed out loud that this incredibly large equation explained the Eternal Alchemy. Not anything I could copy, mostly because I didn't have enough paper to copy down the gargantuan amount of text, and secondly that fairly large chunks were taken out, and replaced with messages saying "I'm so sorry".
 
Frankly I'm unsure of what to make of it. Mogdraon reaches out to what seems to be the downcast, and their twisted minds fall into utter devotion to her. The runes keeping Koko where she was were by no means done by an amateur - which the monster doing the killings most certainly was. Necromantic in nature as well. And then there is the writing. Jotun, a mad Asura, what I think is an extremely powerful human necromancer, and an equation that describes the Eternal Alchemy in totality, scrawled out with frantic apologies. The threads are disconnected. But there must be a link, somewhere.
