---
layout: post
title: The Other Other Hunt
adventure_set: Sidesteps
adventure_number: 6
post_number: 1
---

Alright so this one is exceptionally long so I'm putting a preface here. The first half of this is explaining a long series of walking around talking to people to get information on the whereabouts of someone who might know the whereabouts of Kasielle. If you're in a hurry or or just don't care then you can confidently skip to the part talking about a cave without missing integral parts of the story. If you want the full Fitzen experience however then strap in because oh boy do I have some shit to cover.
 
Soon after the debacle in the previous story Kasielle left the Coalition on bad terms. And not long after that she just up and went missing. Not that I particularly cared, but I also received a letter around the same time that had "5% off" written semi-cryptically on it. Along with it came a small section of a map that I linked to the Timberline Falls. I didn't particularly like Kasielle for a variety of reasons but I felt obligated to ensure her safety. Partially because I am an Errant, but also because I didn't and don't trust the people she knows to do anything more complicated than fuck around and catch some bullets with their skulls. As I arrived at the destination that the map indicated, so too came a series of her friends that I don't feel like listing here so I'll point them out as they become relevant.
 
After first getting our bearings we investigated the snow covered foothills of Timberline. Two of these aforementioned friends - Male humans named Roland and Tyrone if I remember correctly - discovered a set of trails, one leading east and another leading west. To the north in the far distance were two otherwise nondescript Norn children at a waterfall whose only remarkable feature were a pair of bright red boots that one of them was wearing. I discovered a discarded bit of fabric, covered in what I eventually discovered to be nail polish. A barely noticeable trail of the same polish was also seen heading eastwards into the mountains with the trail also headed in that direction.
 
First, we went north towards the north to the two Norn children playing at the waterfall. A brief and hardly-worthy-to-mention conversation with a couple threats and misunderstandings revealed that the boots were most likely Kasielle's, and in fact given as a gift by her mother for her birthday. We suspected plain robbery, and upon the child's direction we headed west to meet said mother.
 
Heading westward, we discovered a great Norn celebration where the only available drink was an intensely alcoholic drink smelling of blackberries. Damned loud too. So loud in fact that I decided that I would stay far upon the outskirts of the party for a while and observe eastward through the scope of my rifle to determine where the other paths would lead to. I was lucky to spot a small camp containing what seemed to be hunters along the eastward path. A mound of rams was in the center of the camp. Strange, definitely, but at the time I considered it an oddity and nothing of true significance.
 
Eventually I returned to the party to find little of interest there as well. Drinks, meats, shouting Norn. A single particularly outgoing Sylvari in very little clothing was at the bar shouting offers from some company or another, though what I paid most interest to was some sort of fight pit - where another of my companions, a Sylvari by the name of Casey, had found himself squaring off against a particularly large Norn woman by the name of Dragma, who had a gilded rapier at their hip which I immediately suspected was not strictly hers. The competition the two were involved in was brutally simple: Headbutt each other in the nose until one of you collapses. Truly engaging stuff, but the Norn had apparently gathered in great numbers to observe this so maybe I'm missing something. Or maybe Jormag did nothing wrong, who knows?
 
Anyway Casey manipulated the practically non-existent rules, and Dragma being outclassed by magical means suggested a draw which Casey was rather pleased with. The crowd wasn't, indicated clearly by their boos and subsequent evacuation to other areas of this barbaric festival. Now that I write about it I believe Sperra would have rather enjoyed the experience of watching it. Dragma then graciously allowed us some questions.
 
Anyway we discovered that the festival was being thrown specifically for the child with the red boots as some sort of birthday celebration. I was horrified by this on no small account, but decided that it wasn't worth pursuing. The more important bit of information was that this was also the child's mother, and the rapier certainly was not hers. In fact, both the boots and the rapier were acquired by Dragma's mother - a Norn shaman devoted to the Ram. Or just Ram, I don't know much about Norn mythology or general religious practices. The point was that the boots and rapier came from the shaman, which made her the person to find if progress was to be made. This shaman however was not open to visitors, and if we wanted to meet this shaman, we would need to put an end to a group of poachers that were preying upon rams in the area. Great. Well, the hunter camp that I spotted previously was probably where the poachers were from, no doubt so we weren't aimless at least. We agreed to this proposal, though I was less enthused than the others.
 
That bitch also told me I was cute, and when I threatened to remove her teeth she gave me a comically large "foam finger" and called me her number one fan. I burned it as it touched my hand and threw it to the ground within eyesight to make a point. I was extremely incensed by that point - because how the fuck dare she. I gathered those that came with me as quickly as possible and made haste towards the camp before I started a proper fight.
 
As we made our way, it became rather obvious that my companions intended to clear this camp out violently. I lobbied for an approach that kept potential death to a minimum, but I quickly found myself outvoted. We entered the camp ready for a fight, and were then disappointed to discover that these were indeed not poachers, but a group investigating the appearance of vicious mechanical rams in the area. It seemed rather strange that a group of non-poachers would stockpile the bodies of poached rams, so while the conversation went on I went to inspect the bodies. It was not a few moments of looking that I determined that these rams were simply mechanical beasts with ram hides lain over the chassis. It was also by that point that one of the rams, apparently not quite dead, surged from the bodies to assail me in particular.
 
Given I was already set for a fight I found it easy to evade. Usage of air allowed a quick escape, and the group quickly descended upon the beast. I, for what it is worth, made no attacks. It attacked another companion, I readied myself to fire, and with everyone else being in the line of fire I held off until the camp leader, a Norn, shot the machine with some kind of electric rifle, which ended the matter in our favor rather quickly. Tyrone was injured somewhat but was still in good working order, while the rest of our party was untouched. I went back to inspecting the rams, while the rest of the group either tended to Tyrone or inspected the newly made wreck.
 
I smelled blackberries. The same smell from the celebration. This left me thoroughly confused. Even more confusing was, when I looked up from my thoughts, one of my companions - A Charr named Erebus - was attempting to drink from a piece of the machine that the group had ripped free from the corpse. Okay, great. Cool. I decided to ignore this. As much as possible. So I decided to speak with these camp dwellers instead.
 
Most of the conversation was not worth repeating. The ram shaman however, was apparently not a shaman so much as she was a scam artist slash witch, tricking and conning travelers and desperate people into throwing away their possessions over cheap tricks. They would inform us of the whereabouts of this witch if we would help the Norn's pet drake whom they had been feeding the metal rams to. Metal rams. Fed to a drake. I considered this offer and instead my companions made some threats. The witch was southwards further into the mountains, and into a cave. I recalled the message that said "5% off" that was sent to me. Felt fitting for a piece of shit advertisement to come from a Norn in the middle of nowhere.
 
The approach to the cave was less than exciting. The cave itself was also not very noteworthy at first. I noticed rather quickly that the mouth of the cave did not reach as far as it should have. The group turned to various methods of lighting the way in, and as we did so it illuminated the hundreds of drawings of scarabs that lined the cave walls where the natural light did not touch. I recalled that Kasielle had for months had dreams involving the creatures - something about Elona, where her ancestors were from - and determined that she was, at the very least, under the thrall of the witch. And with that thought, I spied the partial outline of a figure deeper into the cave out of the corner of my eye where the light did not reach. I decided not to call it out for the time being.
 
Erebus and his lover - a Sylvari named Hisa - suddenly ran away. I don't know what caused it, but the two made a break for the entrance. As they did, the ceiling suddenly collapsed on top of them. The others ran back to attempt a rescue, but I stayed at the front, watching the figure. By the panicked shouting it seemed while Erebus and Hisa were indeed caught in the rockfall, their bodies were nowhere to be seen. And then as if on cue, the figure I was watching leapt forward into the light. Torches on the walls that were not noticed lit up almost simultaneously, and there was the witch.
 
Definitely a witch. But also maybe a ram shaman. Short and thin for a norn, greasy long and black hair.  Her headdress was a pair of ram horns decorated with all manner of ribbons and such. A great pair of aviator glasses shielded her eyes. She moved constantly. Dancing, almost. The cauldron she pulled with her was on wheels.
 
The conversation between our group and the witch very quickly devolved into her trying to sell us things, mostly to do with "spirits” and blathering endlessly about a discount around 5%. I can't describe more of it because no one bothered to investigate further. We pressed her on the whereabouts and status of Kasielle, which led to just about every question being dodged. I gathered that Kasielle was somehow cursed, and that this witch was putting her through a "program" because she was "unwell". The distinctly unhelpful answers and question dodging led Tyrone to draw his sword while I decided I wanted to look at the scarabs. This turned out to be a horrible decision, because the cauldron spewed forth a vile stench that very suddenly made me feel as though I were affected by extreme amounts of narcotics. And to make matters worse, I was very suddenly at the waterfall where we found the children. The witch appeared in the air, and careened towards me. A failed deflection meant that she stabbed me in the chest, which should have ended me but instead reset the scenario, and deepened that horrid feeling of being drunk and high. I quickly determined at this point that I was under some sort of hallucination with no proper way out.
 
So I stabbed myself in the leg. Which freed me from the spell thank you very much, though I also stabbed myself in reality too. Still worth it. Roland and Tyrone were awake by this point, though Casey and an Asura by the name of Ninnko were still out cold. In Ninnko's case I think that was for the best. Regardless Roland and Tyrone were yelling rather loudly in an apparent panic from watching me stab myself. I shouted back to keep alert, but they ignored me and dressed the wound as much as they could.
 
With that sorted, we chased - or in my case hobbled - further into the cave after the witch. When we found her, she had apparently assumed we either fled or died because she was working on a mechanical ram In some makeshift workshop. In fact there were quite a few powered down mechanical rams in the workshop milling about, which made her their probable creator.
 
She started to talk so I shot her kneecap. Which to my surprise, rather than spewing blood on impact, sprayed sparks. She also wailed in much the same way as the mechanical rams did, which immediately suggested to me that this witch was either a well built golem or mechanically enhanced. I wasn't given too much time to contemplate this sadly, because a bullet passed near my head. My hearing at that point was mostly gone, but after some quick looking I laid my eyes upon our quarry sitting up in the scaffoldings of the workshop with a rifle aimed at my head. Kasielle was thin. Gaunt, even. A wretched and dirty copy of the woman I remembered. She stated in no uncertain terms that we were not welcome (which was confusing because why the fuck was I sent a letter if I wasn't supposed to be here), that we should leave, and that she is "one with the rams". The rams also by this point started to activate, which made our situation immediately desperate. Internally I was more concerned with her statement about being a ram though, which I thought sounded dumb.
 
I determined Kasielle to be the bigger threat for two reasons. One, she had a gun pointed at me. Second, these rams were not something to be fucked with and there were a lot of them. It was a long shot, but I assumed that what Kasielle said meant she had some control over the rams, so perhaps taking her out would get rid of them. I used my control over air to quickly teleport next to her, dropped my revolver, and slugged her in the jaw. It was a god damn good punch too, and she crumpled immediately. Unfortunately the slanted surface we were upon caused her to slide off and towards the cave floor below, which at this height (I surmised a two or three story drop) could kill her. I was forced to grab onto her hand as she started to slip off the edge, drop my sword, and then latch onto the scaffolding. And there we dangled. Just as this was happening, Tyrone had engaged the witch while Roland was set to be devoured by the ram horde. Casey and Ninnko apparently had been tossed to the side before the fighting started. The whole ordeal resolved itself in our favor rather quickly after Kasielle's loss of consciousness. The witch was skewered in a short duel and bled some black liquid that I suspect was the same the rams bled, while the rams themselves simply collapsed within the last moments of the battle, which I guess made my assumption correct. All in total, the whole thing lasted less than ten seconds. Ninnko awoke towards the end as well, though he played no part here. Casey remained out.
 
After the battle, I dropped Kasielle into the arms of Tyrone before I dropped to the ground myself. After that, a brief search in the cave and Hisa's screaming led us to discover that they somehow wound up here. Erebus and Hisa were severely wounded, and Erebus himself was unconscious. Ninnko then decided to chuck his fucking teleport mines in the middle of the group, which dropped us just outside of that barbaric celebration that we stumbled upon. Great. At least we were out of the cave. Kasielle started to regain consciousness so I punched her in the back of the head to stop that from being a problem. Hisa was also being a jackass so I taped their mouth shut.
 
And that is where this particular section leaves off. I myself called for Sperra to help me get back to Fort Fitzen, and in time my companions split ways. Sperra was rather upset at having to trek into the mountains to find me, but I just delved into a witch's cave so her complaints can fuck right off. Also if you're reading this I love you please don't hurt me.
