---
layout: post
title: The light at the end of the tunnel
adventure_set: A long, strange story
adventure_number: 5
post_number: 6
---

It was several months since the Coalition finished the contract in Rata Sum: That being covered in the "Murders in Rata Sum'' and "Madness in Rata Sum '' sections. For the most part, this Mogdraon business had fallen by the wayside as the Coalition busied itself with other business. It came as a surprise that Koko, the guild's best medic and contact point for the Rata Sum contract, sent out a message calling for our help. Several of us answered: Myself, an Asura Druid named Harpp, a Charr something Necromancer named Sheska, A Charr  gunner named Gren, and Plutonk, a power armored Asura that led the Coalition one or two years previous. A Charr whose name I never learned also accompanied us. I'll call him "Meep".
 
When we arrived at our destination she, Koko, was looking somewhat uncomfortable wearing Peacemaker garb. She quickly went into an explanation that within the caverns we previously entered while following the murderer from "Madness in Rata Sum", was an old signal from deeper in the caverns. From what they knew it was similar, but not an exact match, to old Inquest markers. A Peacemaker investigation would have normally been launched by this point, but given the Destroyers had erupted in great numbers all around Rata Sum within the past two months, the Peacemakers that gave a damn were all on the surface dealing with the aftermath. Those either untrained or uncaring were left here.
 
Whatever the case we had a portal into the depths this time, which was more pleasant than throwing ourselves down into lightless caverns. On the other side of the portal was a slightly slanted room occupied by bored looking Peacemakers and various Krewe workers doing whatever they were doing. We barely spent any time in the room at all, and forward we went into the caverns in search of this "Ghost signal". I instantly got the impression that we were in a very old cavern. Exceptionally old.  Unfortunately there wasn't very much beyond that of note. At one point we entered a series of tunnels and caverns in our search, and began seeing run down machines the likes you would expect to see in Rata Novus. Old decrepit turrets, cut and frayed cables. One turret was still active, and attempted to fire at us as we approached, but it had long since lost its ability to fire anything more than old dust. At the very least, we knew that somewhere down here existed some form of power source.
 
At length, the caverns we traversed opened up rather suddenly, tall and wide. The ceiling suddenly went some sixty or so meters tall, and just about as wide as well. Near the back of the cavern on the far side was a singular, decrepit golem. Surrounding it were what looked like four pylons, each of them either drawing power from or feeding power to the golem, which was most likely also the source of power for the turret we encountered earlier.
 
I wanted to activate it, personally. A golem trapped underground for an unknown number of years? Its knowledge base alone would uncover so much. The others were against it, naturally. After some debate impatience seemingly got the better of Sheska because she just started wandering forwards towards the golem. I set up against some rocks, but at the suggestion of Harpp and Plutonk, I followed after Sheska just as the golem detected her presence, and started to rouse itself to life.
 
The damn thing was damaged nearly beyond recognition. Hobbling and leaning as it approached Sheska stating something to the effect of "Unknown entity detected." I quickly strode forward and shouted for the golem to identify itself, which thankfully it seemed to recognize. It called itself "Guardian", and as it attempted to move it inadvertently set off its defense mechanisms. Two beams lanced forward from its chassis. Sheska was saved by a timely intervention from Koko - pulling her backwards and out of harm's way. Fortunately the beams were much too far away from me to be a concern, but I can virtually guarantee that if I had been standing in the wrong spot, I would have been dead before I understood what was happening.
 
And like that, the hopes for a peaceful end vanished as the coalition sprang to fight the golem. Plutonk rushed forward as a second twin-lance carved its way past me, and I quickly ran backwards until Plutonk and I traded positions.  Not a moment or two afterwards Meep charged forward after Plutonk, and from in the back Harpp slung spells at it. I intended to join the engagement, but I quickly decided that firing into this melee could only lead to disaster. I instead made my way towards the pillars that seemed to power the golem to see if there was a quick way to shut them down.
 
It was not long after I began my inspection that I heard a great blast and felt the caverns rumble around us. Three of the pylons feeding the golem suddenly surged in even greater power. Looking behind me I saw Gren and Koko running from the blasted remains of one of the pylons carrying some sort of explosive charges with them. The great surge in power also, as it happened, knocked the golem offline temporarily. I also went deaf. With a chance to breathe, we collected ourselves and started planning. As I was deaf I didn't really hear what they started planning and so I was left there standing next to a pylon like an idiot. Koko looked like she was pointing out the different pylons and shouting something to Gren, who had taken the time to place explosives. Apparently they decided to try and shut these down in a safer manner, because when both Koko and Gren made away from the rigged up pylon, they didn't destroy it immediately. I decided to try and help them, and went back to the pylon I was standing next to. Apparently the golem woke up not very long after and the battle behind me began anew, but I was busy and assumed Harpp, Meep, Sheska, and Plutonk could handle themselves.
 
I was joined by Koko and Gren soon after, and together the three of us began formulating a way to turn the things off. Gren proved his resourcefulness by erecting what I can only describe as grounding rods to draw excess energy from the overcharged pylon we were all standing against while I pried off an access panel and Koko began fiddling with the controls. She quickly determined the method of shutting it down, and within moments I felt the energy the pylon once held within it drain away to nothingness. One of three down. The two remaining active pylons did not grow any stronger.
 
Koko, Gren, and I made our way to the second pylon, though our work was briefly interrupted by another great blast. It certainly didn't help my hearing, and while I never determined the cause of the blast in the chaos of the moment, I could certainly determine that the cavern was collapsing, given that rocks were falling all around us. Gren set up his grounding rods and hunched forward over myself and Koko as a shield while we worked on the pylon. It too fell into quiet silence under our work, but any thoughts of celebration were cut short when a great rock crushed both Gren and Koko, missing me by centimeters. I could not see Koko whatsoever, but Gren was still alive, though wedged and unable to lift the thing off of him. He shouted something at me, which confused me because, as I said previously, I was deaf. In either case since he was still alive I just used control over air to teleport over to the pylon, and shut it down using the tried and true methods that Koko established twice before.
 
With the last of the Pylons gone, the golem finally shut down. By this point it was on its back and being hacked apart by the trio I mentioned previously so I suspect if we had just all turned on the golem properly we could have ended this without screwing with the pylons in the slightest. Either way, without any power source the golem failed entirely not long after. Several of us moved to help Gren and Koko while I delved into the innards of the pylons and the golem to see what I could find. And there, the Coalition rested for a moment. I gathered little more than some cool looking metal scraps and a single deactivated power crystal that I never could get working again. Considering the age of the place we were in, it wasn't a bad grab. From Koko's ramblings to Peacemakers back into the caverns, it seemed that the presence of either the golem of the pylons themselves were disturbing communications, and now everything was clear as a well made crystal.
 
Eventually when we gathered ourselves up we set off once more after the mysterious signal that first led us here. The caverns led deeper, but as previous there wasn't very much to note until eventually we came to a great chamber. Towards the center was, to my surprise, a functional Asura gate. The distance was at the very least some thirty or so meters and the pathway up to it was relatively treacherous. Interestingly, an Asura was standing next to the gate. At our arrival this Asura, clothed in advanced power armor of a black and red hue, jumped in apparent surprise as if our arrival was in no way expected. For a moment this (presumed) Inquest agent stared at us, and we stared at them. The tension broke when the Asura leapt into the gate. we, naturally, chased after them up the pathway. A very brief conversation of "Is this smart" followed which, as these conversations always do, ended up with a resounding inconclusive. The Coalition leapt into the portal. I had to drop most of my findings too, which I was a bit irritated over.
 
Unceremoniously we were dumped into a field just outside of Ebonhawke, no Inquest or Gate or anything else of the sort to be seen. After a brief conversation between ourselves and a confused farmer walking his cow that very much went nowhere, we came to the conclusion the gate was somehow rapidly reconfigured or our new quarry carried something on their person that acted as a sort of key for the gate. And without the key, we were merely shunted anywhere on Tyria. Several questions lay unanswered by this point: Namely why were the golem and pylons there to begin with, what was the Inquest doing here, and how was a functional gate so far below Rata Sum? But, as of writing this, there is no answer.
