---
layout: post
title: From fairy tales to shootouts
adventure_set: A long, strange story
adventure_number: 5
post_number: 7
---

Firstly: A few weeks before these events several things happened that will provide necessary context. One, it was revealed in the past few months that Mogdraon was indeed a name, rather than what I theorized as a title or some form of moniker. However, a lot of letters were missing from the name. Second, some weeks after this reveal I was approached by Illy in the Maiden's Whisper, and handed this book: Zandarion's Fables: A Collection of Orrian Tales. At first I didn't properly understand, but Illy informed me of a particularly interesting section that caught her eye. The tale of The Lost Lovers - Morgana Draona and Torvar. I'll let you think about the implications as the story begins.
 
Not too long after the events in the caverns beneath Rata Sum detailed in "Light at the End of the Tunnel", Illy gathered the Coalition on a fact finding mission. On a hunch that the fairy tale had some truth to it, we gained entry in the Priory's archives, specifically the Orrian section, to delve into a mystery surrounding the name Mogdraon.
 
We were led deep into the Priory's libraries by an elderly Asura by the name of Gnoxx. Gnoxx was a person for whom rules were not merely rules, they were a religion. On and on, Gnoxx droned on and on… And on and on and on - and on and wouldn't shut the fuck up about how he doesn't trust mercenaries, we're mercenaries, treat everything with respect and we're always watching you… Et cetera, et cetera. I had half a mind to tell him that my job was more important than his but I figured that wouldn't go over well so I merely endured the perpetual rant.
 
In any case the long and boring and boring and long walk into the archives was the perfect opportunity for Gnoxx to talk us into a zombified state, such that when I finally awoke from the rule induced stupor, we had arrived at our destination and had been generally left on our lonesome. Every look over our shoulder would reveal that bald old fuck glaring at us from across the way, however. Nevertheless we were here, in the Orrian section of the Priory's Archives. Myself, Plutonk, Harpp, and Illy. I handed off that fairy tale book to Illy, who began to explain our purpose here to Plutonk and Harpp as I just wandered off and started looking at books.
 
Here, I am afraid I must apologize. I engrossed myself in the towering bookshelves packed full with every topic on Orr that I could ever think of. History, genealogies, lists of noble houses, cook books, music books, treatises on magic and the gods, arms manuals. I was exactly where I wanted to be. And perhaps unfortunately the group's entire purpose here - and my awareness of the group itself - slipped from my memory. Ten minutes, twenty, thirty. An hour had passed immersing myself in lost and mostly useless knowledge, until at least the sound of Illy calling my name cut through the fog and forced me to return to reality. Up to this point the only information relevant to our Mogdraon problem was a brief lineage of the fairy tale character mentioned previously: Morgana Draona. Of House Draona obviously. Daughter to Kylos and Marsona, who along with the rest of their house were some form of sorcerers and advisors to the rulers of Orr in some respect.
 
The rest of the group fared much better. I should also mention that some time in the last hour, a Charr - the same from the caverns - whom I will still name Meep because I don't have his full name, arrived. Anyway here is the important information we gleaned. House Draona were the hereditary holders of a particular title: Steward of the Winterknell Reliquary. Morgana Draona was famous in her time for the creation of the "Flameheart Spirits", a guild of heroes dedicated to hunting down what they deemed to be "dark powers". She was wed to a man named Torvar the Bold like what the fairy tale told us, and these two were joined by Torvar's brother, Galvar, in ridding the world of evil or some shit like that. They and the guild met their end to a lich whose name history has apparently not recorded.
 
Our information pooling was cut short on the verbal mention of Galvar's name. If you recall, I somehow acquired a ghost around the time that the events of "That gangly assholes that screams". Several months ago I transfered it over to Illy so she could host It instead of me, which was purely because I didn't want to deal with a ghost watching my every god damn move. Anyway apparently this useless piece of shit is Galvar. He briefly and forcefully possesses Illy to enunciate this earth shattering claim, because for some fucking reason he couldn't say it beforehand. Regardless, the connection between the fairy tale, the history we have uncovered, and the name Mogdraon was pretty much confirmed. Morgana Draona was Mogdraon, and at least one of her associates was currently haunting us. Torvar the Bold, as of now, is still unaccounted for. My own assumption is that he was the monster we faced in the Shiverpeaks.
 
It was at this point that Galvar pointed out that we were in mortal danger. True to that fact, all of us looked over to Plutonk, who, not being a bookish type, had left this all to us and had instead turned back to Gnoxx for one reason or another. Regardless of Plutonk's intentions, he now placed himself as the first target of four Inquest agents that had made their way into the hall. Disguises were discarded, weapons were drawn.
 
One of them was properly armored, with some sort of arcane style rifle. One had a pair of swords, one a pair a pistols, and the last a staff. The armored one was definitely the leader of the team, barking an order out to exterminate us. The other three interestingly seemed hesitant to engage, but I did not hear the brief argument that seemed to erupt as I was diving for a bookshelf to use as cover, putting three rounds towards them as I ran. It was my intention from the very beginning to incapacitate the leader on the educated guess that, if he were to go down, the other three would decide to either run or surrender.
 
Here's where things get frustrating. Gnoxx had been standing there in between us and the Inquest, shouting at us to do something as the armored man with the rifle blew Illy up with a clean shot. My shots apparently missed, and ruined some scrolls and books in the background which Gnoxx apparently took great exception to. He grabbed a book and ran towards me, clearly intending to engage in melee and beat me over the head.
 
An archivist of the Priory was ignoring a firefight between us and the Inquest. And he is coming at me, an armed Asura that has just fired three shots past him.
 
An Archivist. Of the Priory. Was ignoring the Inquest. To attack me with a book.
 
So I shot two times at the mother fucker, going for the legs. I didn't realize that the son of a bitch was magically gifted, and that slip of judgement had me turning back to the Inquest as he paused the bullets mid flight using what I assume to be Mesmer abilities. He then ensnared me with some kind of tendrils. I immediately thought of a plan, but before I could enact this plan - that being to turn into water, launch myself forward and cave his fucking head in - He launched me up and far into the air. I most likely could have got myself back into the fight without issue first of all. I could have simply enacted the plan of turning into water to get rid of the bindings, and then launch myself back to where I came from. Or perhaps I could have used lightning to send me back. I did none of these things. I decided that Gnoxx and the rest of the Coalition didn't need my help, and I was liable to start attacking everyone given how infuriated I was. So I just let myself sail into the dimly lit interior of the Priory's archives.
 
I don't recall the exact timing on how long I flew but I lost sight of the battle immediately. Some time later I collided with the top of a bookshelf. Miraculously I didn't break the entirety of my body on the damn thing, but it certainly did not feel good. I bounced off of it, and finally came to a stop when I collided with a large mushroom, which brought me to a slow and careful stop. Once I was on the ground I decided to wander around just kind of looking at things until I at last heard hushed voices which I thought it right to investigate. Unfortunately the maze of bookshelves didn't let me get near them properly, so I decided to just cheat and take books from the shelves until I could just squeeze through them to find the people talking.
 
This, as it happens, was a terrible idea. Because it was more Inquest. I recall that they were talking about them being reinforcements for another group that had suffered some casualties. Predictably the conversation stopped suddenly when I wormed my way into the isle they were all standing in. I decided to just play it cool and start walking away as if crawling around on the bookshelves was just how my day usually went in an attempt to avoid a confrontation. It almost worked, but eventually one of them shouted for me to stop, and I heard guns being leveled at me. Part of me just wanted to start tearing them the fuck apart, but more of me was just fed up with today so I held up my hands and surrendered. They argued amongst themselves for a few minutes before one of them was assigned to guard me. Not that I gave a shit, because as they were doing this I pulled some more books from the shelves and used them to make a makeshift bed where I would lay for a good long while.
 
Eventually, through a boring conversation with my reluctant captor, I gleaned this: The Inquest were indeed after us in particular, but they were after us for a very peculiar reason. They thought we were all cultists in service to Mogdraon. Or Morgana Draona, whatever you prefer. I think I like the name Morgana, so I'll use that from now on. Anyway I didn't bother to learn why exactly they thought this, but I convinced the Inquest agent guarding me to get his friends to stand down, and I called in to my comrades to stand down as well. They didn't respond immediately but I figured they got the message regardless. Eventually, the Priory came to collect. A Priory Charr named Varius, who has a distinct distaste for the Inquest and whom I have had previous dealings ended up being the one to lead me back to the rest of the Coalition, who by this time were having pleasant conversation with the two Inquest members still standing: The sword wielder, and the staff wielder. The armored Asura was face down on the floor, and the pistol wielder was dead not too far from him with a hole through his head. I inquired as to why he was dead seeing as he was one of the three hesitant to engage us and we had the means to revive him, but no one apparently gave enough of a damn to respond. Which infuriated me, again.
 
By this point, I was done with current events. I was having a very bad day and had no desire to engage with the conversations going on around me lest I stumble upon even more problems that I would have to deal with so I just went off in my own little world from here on out. There were only a few more noteworthy occurrences, those being that the armored Asura woke up and attempted to kill Illy, though he failed and was apprehended properly afterwards. Gnoxx also approached us once more. He made a beeline for me holding a paper that I think was supposed to be a bill for damages, but once he came in range I swing at his nose. Unfortunately I was a bit short, and a proper fight was about to erupt before he was stopped by none other than Steward Gixx. Unsurprisingly he didn't even bother to address us, and merely ordered Gnoxx to stop before he moved on with what I assumed was a long day of inquiries as to how multiple Inquest squads breached the security of the Priory.
 
Soon after we collected ourselves and vacated. If nothing else, we learned the origins of Morgana and the two brothers that we now find ourselves embroiled in. Unfortunately the search for answers has brought more questions than answers.
