---
layout: post
title: The Order of Whispers ruins everything
adventure_set: A long, strange story
adventure_number: 5
post_number: 9
---

Eventually it came to do the Arcane Eye's dirty work, which I was rather vocal about disliking from the very beginning. Myself, Illy, and Harpp arrived at the same meeting place from the last section with Koko and the Whispers Agent who first handed us the Rata Sum contract in tow. The job was this: One of Section 11's more standout (As far as I could tell) "warlords" was an Asura by the name of Hix, who if I understand this correctly was the direct superior of the Inquest groups that assaulted us in the Priory. Following this failure he was outed from the Inquest at large for reasons I don't remember and don't particularly care to find out about. The important bit was that he was vulnerable, and the Arcane Eye wanted us to get him. On inquiring as to why they couldn't do this shit themselves, I was informed that the Inquest have infiltrated the Eye at every level, so someone from outside needed to do this. One wonders what use they are if such things as tracking down disgraced operatives is beyond them.

I protested going after Hix in the first place because at the time I considered Mogdraon/The Lich to be of a much higher priority than some Inquest operatives stuck in the wilderness with no support. Now that I look back on this matter with the benefit of hindsight, I am confident that I don't know who the bigger threat was. The most I've seen Mogdraon/The Lich do is cause a Jotun civil war (That Gangly Asshole That Screams), raise multiple(?) undead cyborg Asura freaks (Murders in Rata Sum & Madness in Rata Sum), and cause problems for Section 11. To the best of my knowledge, I've killed more things in the past five years than Mogdraon/The Lich has in the last hundred or so. The more I consider this, the more I'm convinced that I'm probably more of a threat to civilization than Mogdraon/The Lich is. Side note, I keep saying Mogdraon/The Lich because of some interesting and or infuriating information revealed at the end of this section. Just bear with me.

Anyway no one cared about my opinion on the matter because the Eye had given Koko some information related to Mogdraon/The Lich and this was a good enough reason to help them. When I asked in my usual manner as to why Koko had not divulged this information to me, she explained to me in my usual manner that I hadn't asked. So either the information Koko retrieved was of such little import that I was not notified, or she decided that I needed to personally approach her for important information that could assist the Coalition in the hunt for Mogdraon/The Lich. You may gather from the way I describe this that I am still upset with Koko. Which is correct, so I don't see myself approaching her anytime soon. This does mean that I'm now assuredly operating on stale information but we'll just assume that Koko is now privy to the first letter of the last name of the Lich's second cousin's personal chef's husband's dog's first owner's maternal grandmother and leave it there.

A brief discussion ensued with me not so subtly suggesting that the Arcane Eye and should fuck itself, and we were teleported a kilometer or so from our destination: Hix's base. In total, there was myself, Illy, Harpp, Koko, and the Whispers agent. We found ourselves deep in the southern edge of the Shiverpeaks in a small Peacemakers encampment. Two Peacemakers greeted us, and informed us of the current situation. Hix and what few subordinates he still had left were settled in an abandoned mine shaft to the southeast, across a few frozen lakes and through some canyons. This was also Dredge territory, and it's likely that Hix has agitated them. Casualties were to be kept minimal, especially Hix given the potential for useful information he may possess. I surmised that attempting to capture desperate Inquest operatives alive was unlikely at best, but opted to keep that to myself. Maybe we would get lucky.

The trek towards the base was uneventful. Harpp and I got into an argument related to staying quiet and the Whispers agent had vanished with the reasoning that she would be scouting. My trust in her immediately dropped into the negatives and I mentally prepared myself to get ambushed. Otherwise, as we crossed one of the frozen lakes I spied far to the south, a collapsed Dredge tunnel leading into the mountains. This clued me in rather quickly to the idea that we would not have to worry about Dredge whatsoever. It turns out that I was only mostly correct in that assumption. Eventually we came upon the Inquest base, which was situated on the southern shore of a great frozen lake. A mining shaft was seen not too far from the base itself, and all around the lake was a swarm of Dredge constructs. The typical hack job Dredge machines had seemingly been made to protect the Inquest inhabitants, as they made no attempts to assault the base. From our observation and incoming scouting information from the Whispers Agent, we had two options. The first was to traverse through the mountains around the lake, navigating roosting nests of various flying creatures and braving treacherous terrain to circle around the defenses, and strike with the element of surprise. The second and far more straightforward of the two was to advance directly across the lake, brave the horde of ramshackle mechanical abominations, and break down the front door. We eventually settled on the direct course, though the Whispers Agent was meant to traverse the roundabout route to strike the Inquest when she had the chance.

So the assault began. Typically at this point I offer some sort of description on the type of combat occurring, but there isn't much to say here. I stayed in the back, and we blew through the horde. The Inquest to their (also next to worthless) credit had not been idle as we butchered their creations. Two of them had donned mechanical suits not unlike the machines on the lake, though they were larger and presumably better built. One was armed simply with an arm that ended with a hammer, and the other wielded a cannon. Dealing with them was as simple as the machines on the lake, and I paid them little mind beyond using a bolt of lightning to destroy internal components before they could actually become a problem. Most of my focus was on Hix, who I spied running from the fight towards the abandoned mineshaft not too far off from him. The Whispers agent, whom to reiterate I did not trust in the slightest, was chasing after him at full tilt.

As soon as I could safely leave the others to deal with the remains of the Dredge suits, I teleported as fast as I could after Hix and the agent. I could just feel that she would fuck something up and neither did I trust her to not outright betray us for some brainless Order of Whispers esoteric reasoning. So I gave chase deep into the mineshaft ahead of my companions, though apparently too god damn slow. When I finished a chain of teleports following their trail, I was met with a sight that made me see red. Upon the floor beneath a massive statue of Grenth lay Hix, mortally wounded by a dagger. Next to him stands the Whispers agent, holding a dagger. It didn't take much to figure out what happened, and I calmly inquired as to what in the god damn fuck did she stab him for, to which she replied that he "Had a gun". At that point, I lost my cool. A gun? What did she think he had? He's a desperate and disgraced Inquest Operative that probably turned people into batteries and terminals, of course he has guns. Why the bloody hell did a lone Whispers agent rush after someone with a gun, when the only thing they had was a knife? Harpp and Illy arrived not long after as I berated the agent. Harpp to his credit attempted to deliver medical aid, but it was far too late to save him. But while he was still living, information extraction was still possible. And freely given, though what he decided to talk about predictably answered no questions, and raised more.

Here is where I stop being nice. This dying asshole started talking about his regrets. He spoke of his father, how he won't get to see him again, how we need to stop Mogdraon. A useless drivel of information I had no need nor desire for. The important bits are the following: His group had delved into things that "They should not have delved into ''. Mogdraon unleashed undead cyborgs, presumably the same kind we destroyed in Rata Sum, upon the lab he operated. My best guess is that the lab is a total loss and no one knows where to find it. He also stated that we needed to stop the Lich or else "he" would come back, though as you can tell by the tone in which I write this, the useless fuck didn't bother to explain what the fuck "he" meant. Only that there was something beneath the sea and it should have stayed there. Then he died. I don't remember anything beyond this point besides blinding rage, so that's where this section ends.

As to what Mogdraon/The Lich means: There are two titles here: Mogdraon and The Lich. According to the fairy tale the two are separate but there not enough information to say that they're actually two different people. We don't know what happened to Morgana Draona, her husband Tolvar, Galvar is useless. We know nothing. The Lich could be Morgana and Mogdraon, Morgana could be dead and gone and the Lich has taken the name Mogdraon, the Lich is dead and Mogdraon was never intended to be used. The only person that knew single thing about what is even going on has told us that Mogdraon - who we can't verify the identity of insofar as we are aware that Mogdraon is a corruption of Morgana Draona but we don't know who is wearing the name - attacked a lab, and we need to stop both "Mogdraon" and "The Lich" that we know nothing about else an unnamed "He" that we know nothing about will return.

Given the lack of verifiable information on this topic, I've decided to concoct my own theory that is just as valid as yours: Galvar's father-in-law had a very large tax return due from the local government, but died before it was able to be sent. Galvar became a Lich and raised his father-in-law to acquire these tax returns, but upon realizing that tax returns don't exist in ancient Orr, sealed his father-in-law away deep under the ocean. Morgana and Tolvar are actually Galvar's pet dogs. Now Galvar, being the Lich, seeks to free his father-in-law because hopefully in modern day there is such a thing as tax returns for said father-in-law to collect.

