---
layout: post
title: Turns out you're all wrong
adventure_set: A long, strange story
adventure_number: 5
post_number: 10
---

So the tale continues. There was a lull for several weeks following the events in the Shiverpeaks, though eventually we were once more called to the office of the Arcane Eye agent we were working with. Immediately, accusations were flung at the Whispers Agent who killed Hix. Generally, she was just labeled as incompetent given the explicit orders to not kill Hix were ignored when she chased him down and knifed him. I could bitch about that some more but for everyone's sanity I won't. If you need a refresher on my opinions on the topic, read the last few paragraphs of the "The Order Of Whispers Ruins Everything" section. The Whispers agent was summarily removed from the investigation, though she very much stated that we would regret this on her way out, which I took as a very unserious threat given she only has a knife and I'm smarter than Hix was.
 
Either way we were given our next target to bring in, again this time alive and this time the target would not be as "easy" as Hix was. This target went by the name "Rond the Executioner". A still frame from certain security footage showed a power armor wielding Asura screaming with rage and covered with blood. He was last seen taking up residence in a shitty neighborhood around Soren Draa currently under reconstruction following Destroyer attacks, where there were bound to be civilians nearby. He was also an officer in Section 11, and according to Arcane Eye records he has acquired a total of 237 kills on sapient creatures. 237 dead people at this asura's feet. Damn. All of us present in the room besides the Arcane Eye agent balked at this. They want us to take him alive while suffering no civilian casualties. Yea, sure.
 
This was stupid and I believe more or less all of us - that being myself, Illy, Harpp, and Varius (Whom was present when the Priory was infiltrated by the Inquest and for whatever reason decided he wanted revenge). But for some equally stupid reason, we chose to take the mission despite abject failure being on the horizon. As a very small consolation, we were given access to civil unrest suppression gear. Tear gas, stun rounds, that sort of thing. Most of us didn't bother delving into the armory as they were happy with their own equipment, but I decided to see what they had. I found bullets that I recognized to be things that Sperra designed so I took as many as I could because they're expensive and I wanted them. 18 "taser" bullets in total, worth around two gold each. Even if this was a failure it was worth it based on that alone.
 
As for the target himself, Rond's new residence was easy to track down. In this shitty neighborhood was a row of one floor one room habitation units for what I assume are manual laborers. Beyond a front door, small windows, and a very small "backyard" consistent of a next-to-worthless fence and back door, nothing could really be said of it. Illy provided invisibility, and the four of us spread around the area in wait. I just stood in the middle of the street behind Rond's residence on the assumption that the invisibility would protect me. I don't know where the others went.
 
So we laid in wait for the next few minutes, until a great crash on the roof of Rond's residence alerted me to some kind of movement happening. Not a few seconds after this crash, a very large Asura matching the description of the target rounded the corner on the far end of the back street in which I was standing. He was wearing simple civilian clothing, had no obvious weapons, and was carrying ordinary groceries from what I could see. A dog, alerted by the crash, began barking like mad which attracted Rond's attention, and as he made his way into the shitty backyard of his residence, he leaned over the fence to calm down the barking vermin. I chose this moment to put two stun rounds into his back, assumed that he had some nasty trick up his sleeve, and readied for a proper fight. He went down without so much as a murmur. Varius rounded the corner and dogpiled the stunned Asura, and Harpp descended from the roof of the habitation unit to secure him and wait for retrieval (I assume that Harpp was the cause of the earlier crash).
 
He seemed far from the rampaging monstrosity I imagined an hour previous. When the stun finally wore itself thin, there was no resistance. No mad thrashing, no threats or screaming or fight of any kind. He stated that he figured someone would come for him eventually, which clued me into the idea that he was somehow at peace with his fate. I didn't necessarily believe it though, and while our group brought him inside his residence, I picked up his groceries and placed them into a refrigeration unit on his request before I began searching the general unit. The inside was as shitty as the outside, and if I was not aware of Rond's profession, I would have assumed he was a simple civilian. No weapons, no armor. Just a floor, chairs, tables, bathroom, kitchen area. Simple. Normal.
 
The conversation that followed was quite a bit more depressing than I had hoped. Rond and his wife were Inquest operatives that joined Section 11. His wife was chosen to be a test subject for the experiments that would eventually produce Koko (Murders in Rata Sum for reference), though she would effectively not survive the attempt. I don't know exactly her condition, but considering Section 11 and the Inquest in general I suspect it was very poor. Instead of cutting his losses, Rond stayed within Section 11 on a definitely false promise that Section 11 would fix his wife. I suppose they were one of the couples that had their contracts last for the rest of their lives and his bond to her was stronger than most are, I think. I'm not sure what I think about that. I don't like thinking about how Sperra and I would deal with such things. I think I would want Sperra to kill me and get the fuck out if I ever ended up in the same situation. Anyway Rond tore his way through body after body with no end in sight, until finally his wife would eventually die. Coincidentally, her death came indirectly at the hands of the Coalition when we stormed Section 11s main center of operations several years previous and destroyed it. On some level I feel guilty for proving Rond's hopes of his wife's recovery to be pointless. But I suppose from another angle we freed him from the prison he had crafted for himself. Lacking any reason to live, Rond abandoned the remains of Section 11 and the Inquest to live out the rest of his days as he is now, waiting for when someone would finally come to collect, which the Peacemakers did within the next hour or so. I visited him a few days after these events to observe him. If nothing else, it seems like he's made his peace with the world. Perhaps that is for the best.
 
As for our business with Mogdraon, we had at least some answers. Tolvar, Morgana's lover, is probably the Gangly Asshole that Screams in the Shiverpeaks, who according to Rond is actually guarding Morgana's tomb. Mogdraon is actually one of the experiments like Rond's wife and Koko was, labeled SR-4. She was recorded as dead, but supposedly she is still alive and hell bent on taking revenge on Section 11. Also literally everyone else on the planet too because fuck us I guess. The name or title Mogdraon is seemingly just a name that SR-4 has taken to disguise their true nature, so Morgana Draona and the two brothers might not actually have any significance to anything going on here. I think I'll try to get into that tomb somehow anyway to see why it's being guarded by Morgana's twisted lover for my own curiosity. Apparently as well, SR-4 has also, somehow, solved the Alchemy. Don't ask me what that means, but I believe this has something to do with the scrawled out equations written upon the walls of the cavern in "Madness in Rata Sum ''. What significance this has is lost on me for the time being, but I think It just proves SR-4's insanity as if you needed more.
 
This does not however, account for how useless of a fuck Galvar is, and neither does it give any idea as to whether or not the Lich is something that needs to be dealt with. SR-4's whereabouts are unknown, though perhaps that will change over the coming months. Not as many answers that I would have liked. Some though, which is at least somewhat comforting.
 
This also means that any theories you had are wrong.
