---
layout: post
title: I hate Galvar
adventure_set: A long, strange story
adventure_number: 5
post_number: 11
---

One week passed after the capture of Rond. And like so many times before we found ourselves in a room with the Eye Agent giving us a briefing. The job this time was rather simple and complex at the same time. Simple in that all we had to do was retrieve the body of a Section Eleven agent. Complex because this agent - Arcanist Molb - had apparently died deep within an enchanted forest near but not inside the Dreadwalker's territory. The Dreadwalker, in case you skipped to this chapter, is Tolvar. The lover of a necromancer that is entombed somewhere in the Shiverpeaks. He also seemed to have some sort of device on his person at the time of entering the forest that could assist us in actually traversing the Dreadwalker's territory, which would be a fantastic boon for us. Given this was the Shiverpeaks, winter gear was given to everyone that would take it. For my own benefit I took as many layers as I possibly could. Not going to freeze to death in this damn place, not me.
 
We waypointed to very near our destination and set off with the vague notion of where Molb's corpse, and the item he had in his possession might be. The Arcane Eye agent actually came with us as well on this, so the party was in total myself, Ileliana, Harpp, Plutonk, Varius, Remus, Koko, and the Eye agent.
 
Upon entering the forest, Ileliana almost immediately started having pains in her head. We stopped rather quickly after they started, and I dug in the snow to have some sort of foxhole to sit in if we were attacked. I found a skull in a helmet. Didn't really know what kind of helmet though, just that it was definitely human sized and seemed like a spangenhelm. As I dug, Illy's headaches that had so recently started grew exponentially worse, before a ghostly blue light shone from both her eyes, nose, and mouth. And when she spoke, it was in the voice of that useless piece of ghost shit, Galvar. I lost interest in what he had to say immediately after he started speaking, so I can't really give any insight into the ensuing conversation beyond that he was threatened several times. Unfortunately those threats were just idle, because we lacked the means of stopping the possession and evicting him from Ileliana, and apparently he could guide us around. Not that I gave a shit. I'd trade my left arm to get him to fuck off. Probably my right one too. Anyway, I left my foxhole and the party started traversing deeper into the woods, guided by this blue-white cockbite. Ileliana's body had a hell of a time of it too. Twisted and stumbling and fighting through every step.
 
I didn't keep track of the time on this one but on the march we heard fighting in the distance, and against Galvar's wishes we decided it was wise to investigate, lest we abandon some poor idiot to their fate. Unfortunately the moment we turned, Ileliana and her possessor were gone. We looked one way, looked back, and they were gone. Harpp immediately went into hysterics, but by that point I was already running to the fight we had heard not a few moments previous.
 
The fight was very short and generally not worth recounting, though the participants should be noted. A human Whispers agent was surrounded by a number of creatures that looked as if they were corpses intertwined with wood from the forest in which they dwelled. They seemed particularly resistant to physical damage like an axe or sword, and the same for magics that did not explicitly deal with fire, like lightning or, well, fire. Having an ample supply of magics like that, we dealt with them quickly and spoke with the Whispers agent.
 
Unfortunately things get weird here. The Whispers agent who previously worked with us as part of "The Order of Whispers Ruins Everything" is named Milli. Usually I avoid names of secretive organizations but fuck her. Anyway, this new Whispers Agent - a human - got wind that Milli was somehow up here in the Shiverpeaks. The Arcane Eye noted that such was impossible, because according to her intelligence, Milli is currently still in Metrica. Given she can't be in the same place twice, something fucky was obviously going on. Not that we could do anything about it right now given we were trudging about in an enchanted forest with a bunch of corpse tree things, but interesting to know for a later date.
 
After the brief discussion that transpired over Milli's apparent disappearance, the party collected some somehow dry wood and built a small campfire to ward off the bone biting cold that infested the forest. And over the campfire, Varius and Remus opted to escort the Whispers agent out of the forest, leaving the rest of our party on our own to look for our dead Arcanist. We stayed by the fire for a few minutes discussing our next moves, with Harpp - In a relationship with Illy - advocating an immediate search for her. I myself assumed that Galvar had fucked up and by now they were both dead, which didn't panic me as much as I thought it would. Eventually we decided to use one of the Arcane Eye Agent's tracking methods to try and look for Illy that way, broke camp, and began to trek once more through the desolate snow covered forest.
 
The more we traversed this place the more uneasy I felt. Directions became confused, we stumbled onto our own tracks several times, the forests seemed to move along with us, and the cold became more and more intense. Naturally I did well in these conditions owing to my abilities with fire, but the others generally lacked these capabilities and required assistance to keep moving. It was in a clearing of one of the forests that things became immeasurably worse. A rock formation in the clearing hosted more of the undead creatures we slew previously, and as we went by them they sprang on us. Knowing that the only thing that really seemed to hurt them was fire, I sat down a little bit aways and blasted at the things when opportunities came. My companions were less than enthused with my immobile strategy but I can't imagine I could have cared less. Unfortunately not much to talk about there. We knew their weaknesses, no one else had control over fire like I did, so we made so by either hitting them really, really hard or giving me openings to get good hits in. No wounds on our side suffered, and we were back on track shortly after the end of the fight.
 
More walking. I want to put more here but I can't will myself to explain in great detail about how I put one foot in front of the other and thought about more pleasant things like coffee and Sperra, occasionally engaging in conversation with those around me about inane things like how the forest sucks or something similar.
 
Blah blah blah, we wandered forward trying to track Illy through the Agent's communication setup, and at one point or another we approached another set of trees. These trees looked more dead than the other ones which was somehow impressive and also disconcerting at the same time. And from the trees, we saw the familiar blue light of that useless piece of shit, Galvar. Still possessing Illy, who by this point was starting to break apart. Literally. We approached Illy, Galvar talked about needing help and I recall myself and Harpp leveling threats of beating his fucking head in. But alas as before we lacked the ability to remove the possession so we didn't really have any options.
 
More walking.
 
Eventually this baby blue clown led us to the center of the tree formation, where a Norn looking a lot like Galvar was chained up in the air with two magic looking torches on either side of him. Around him was a forcefield of sorts that I could not identify, though it contained many of the same runes that Koko was trapped by a few months ago. We were informed by Galvar that crossing the forcefield meant certain death, and the only way to get rid of the forcefield (Which I didn't understand why we had to), was to put out the torches somehow.
 
Read that last part again because it's important later. PUT OUT THE TORCHES. Notice the wording. PUT OUT.
 
Also Molb's body was in the forcefield as well. That was pretty convenient. Couldn't get to him though. I figured that we should just shoot the torches, but the barrier destroyed the bullets as they passed through. Great. Next I just tossed in some rocks, which also got destroyed. The mechanics of this portal were very confusing, given the arcanist was still fully clothed and not disintegrated. Maybe if I crossed it everything would remain intact except my life? We had a necromancer, there's probably some weird shit we could pull to bypass the barrier.
 
Galvar went on to explain with me half listening that the Lich apparently bested him, and sealed him here in a barrier that took the lives of forty villagers to make. He said this while Illy was twitching and bleeding and dying so it was pretty strange to listen to. Anyway we - not me - hypothesized that we could trade lives for lives, so I tossed in a wilted rose I never got around to giving Sperra, some cotton balls, and the case I carried them in to see if that would somehow count as a life. Harpp had the better idea to use the trees around him, in effect using their seeds to trade the lives necessary to break the barrier. But in the end he didn't because they said no or some shit like that. Koko and Harpp got into a rather nasty argument regarding Illy's rapidly failing health that I didn't bother to pay any attention to.
 
Anyway while Illy was dying and Harpp was begging (He was more so arguing but I prefer to call it begging because they're trees), I briefly treated the forcefield as a garbage disposal unit before conjuring some water above the torches to douse them. The water formed, yes. But the torches were not affected in the slightest. Given Galvar said 'PUT THEM OUT' I assumed that since the water didn't affect them, we couldn't affect them physically at all. At that point everyone started screaming at each other while Illy collapsed. Koko shouted something about 'trading years to open a gap' or something that I wasn't listening to because I was trying to figure out some way to get past the barrier. The shouting died down as they came to some kind of agreement, and Koko started concentrating rreeeeaaaally hard on the barrier as I dug around the edge to see if it was a complete sphere. Unfortunately it was. By that point, Koko opened up a small hole in the barrier through some necromantic fuckery, and used it to chuck a fucking rock at the torch. I rolled my eyes.
 
And then the torch fell over.
 
I manipulated the earth beneath the other torch and it fell over too.
 
At this point, I lost track of time and space because the next minute and a half was spent screaming at Galvar at the top of my lungs about how when he said "put the torches out" he meant "knock them over".
 
**WHY IN THE NAME OF THE ENTIRE FUCK FAMILY TREE DID GALVAR SAY 'PUT THEM OUT' AND NOT 'KNOCK THEM OVER'. I COULD HAVE KNOCKED THEM OVER! I COULD HAVE JUST MANIPULATED THE EARTH AND BOOM WE'RE DONE, BUT WHEN HE SAID 'PUT THEM OUT' HOW THE FUCK WAS I SUPPOSED TO KNOW THAT WE WERE SUPPOSED TO KNOCK THEM OVER. THE DELUGE OF WATER ON THEM DIDN'T AFFECT THEM, WHY WOULD THE EARTH? WHY DID KOKO, WHO APPARENTLY UNDERSTOOD THIS, NOT JUST TELL ME TO KNOCK THEM OVER? SHE KNOWS I'M AN ELEMENTALIST.**
 
**FUCK.**
**ME.**
 
Anyway after the torches went down, the forcefield evaporated and Galvar was apparently freed from his chains. The possession of Illy stopped, he turned corporeal and then he teleported us out with some wack ass mist magics. Thankfully he managed to teleport us right in the middle of the Arcane Eye's outpost in the area where Remus and Varius were hanging out with the Whispers Agent. Illy was pretty much dead by this point and I rounded on the Arcanist's corpse to loot it before the Eye could. They yelled at me to stop, but then their officer told them to let me loot him so I did.
 
But first, Galvar's story. For your sake, not mine.
 
The Flameheart Spirits was a guild run by Morgana Draona, to which Galvar and Tolvar were part of. The lich they went up against was Toroth Amon'zul - weird name - an Orrian lich.  Kiyari Dira, who was supposedly a noble and kind soul, was a member of the guild when Amon'zul manipulated her 'past pains', and in a particularly desperate fight between the Lich and the guild, Kiyari betrayed the guild and stabbed Morgana in the back. Literally, with a poisoned dagger. Then she rounded on Galvar, captured (somehow) his spirit, and in the aftermath of the fight brought him to Amon'zul who tortured him until his spirit broke up. Again, literally. So one half got put into the forest place, and one half got used to torment Tolvar and the dying Morgana for Amon'zul's own amusement I guess. What exactly Kiyari Dira's past pains were was not elaborated upon so I'm going to insert my own version of events where the bed she slept on was creaky and it never got fixed, which drove her mad.
 
Apparently Morgana didn't die immediately, but the debilitating state she was in meant that the leadership had suddenly disappeared. Tolvar, distraught over a part of Galvar just kind of being around and having to care for Morgana, failed to keep the guild from breaking apart. Morgana somehow found it in her to rally the guild or whatever the hell was left of it to a final battle though. The Lich got lured to a tomb that Tolvar made (probably for Morgana). So the Flameheart Spirits lined up at the tomb and got the shit beat out of them by the Lich, no contest. But apparently this fight was on "hallowed ground" or some horse shit like that, and dying made Morgana a super badass that punted Amon'zul into the Mists where he says 'they're still fighting'. Barring 'super badass' that's basically it. Morgana's death somehow let her force the Lich into the Mists, where to this day they're still engaging in endless combat. No I don't know what hallowed ground means, no I don't know how this explains Tolvar's being the Dreadwalker, no I don't know how a poisoned and weakened and actually dying Morgana could find the strength to somehow transport a Lich into the Mists, but that's what I got told so that's what I'm putting down. For my own sanity I'm going to assume that the tomb had a "Transport everyone to the Mists' ' button that Morgana slammed with her dying breath. Tolvar is just dressed up as the Dreadwalker and isn't actually that dangerous.
 
Anyway back to current events, I found these things off of Molb's body: Fifteen gold (hell yes), A cartographer's compass that deals with the Mists somehow, a key-card for a secure Inquest facility, a market chip to buy and sell with (400 gold on it), and a journal with a very complex map of the mists.
 
The journal essentially is an attempt at Mist Cartography. Something that I'm familiar with, but only because one of Sherwood's gifts to me way back when was a cartographer's compass that looks suspiciously similar to the one off of Molb's body. Molb postulates in the journal that the Mists aren't as unpredictable as everyone thinks - which is true because you're an idiot if you believe the Mists are basically a teenage human's brain. Essentially his theory is that you can use the Mists as a teleportation system. The idea is that we can use the Mist's behaviors as a predictive guide for certain, stable pathways in the Mists between two locations, giving us the ability to traverse massive distances very, very quickly. This I'm less convinced on, but current evidence suggests it's not outside the realm of possibility. At the very least the inherent instability In the Mists makes this dangerous, but there is something there that is useful. My own theories have to do with "The Rift" being a part of this, but we'll see where that leads me.
 
So that is where this section ends. Illy's recovery is going to be a slow one, Galvar is back in the flesh much to my chagrin, and I have acquired some money and a compass. And some insights into how Molb intended to evade the Dreadwalker.
