---
layout: post
title: I really hate Galvar
adventure_set: A long, strange story
adventure_number: 5
post_number: 12
---

And then one day however long later we got called in again by the Eye, this time on a rescue mission chasing after a team of Asura that had disappeared somewhere in the Dreadwalker's territory, who themselves were chasing after Galvar after some bullshit ominous "I must stop something before it comes to pass" thing and running off into fucking nowhere. The team, in their pursuit, went missing.
 
To keep a long, boring start to this story short: We headed for the team's last known location and found a field of Svanir, frozen and dead in various positions. Also a blue portal. Best guess was that they went into the portal, so we just went in. Which was fantastically fucking stupid, by the way. What the fuck were we thinking just walking into a random god damn portal in the middle of nowhere surrounded by dead and frozen Svanir? And indeed it was a fucking stupid idea, because it spat us out into the Mists with no obvious way back.
 
I say the Mists because I don't have a more descriptive place to put us.  It became very apparent very quickly that what we found ourselves trapped (again, by our own stupidity) in a memory replaying itself over and over. The memory, as it happened, was the memory of the Flameheart Spirits just before their final confrontation with the lich (Maybe? More on that later). The team split in two directions. Half of us wandered through the memory, trying to find the key figures of the guild - Morgana, Galvar, Torvar, etc. while I focused on trying to find a way out of this place. It wasn't very long until I had stumbled upon the team that went missing and discussed our situation with them.
 
Evidently, they had been trapped here for a week or more, watching the memory play ad infinitum. And finding out what information they could. Unfortunately it wasn't very useful to record, but I was at least pleased that they took the initiative to find out something rather than just sitting around waiting for rescue. Towards the end of that conversation, the other half of our group made a worthwhile discovery that set us once more on the path forwards. Kiyari Dira, as mentioned in the "I Hate Galvar" section, was said by Galvar to be the member of the Flameheart Spirits that would betray them, mortally wound Morgana, and trap Galvar to be the Lich's plaything. After combing through the conversations that happen in the memory, they found a conversation between Galvar and Kiyari that plainly showed us that Galvar and Kiyari were lovers - which he did not mention whatsoever and is therefore suspicious - and that Kiyari herself seemed to be the more kindhearted type, which makes her apparent betrayal more confusing. By omitting this information, Galvar had effectively lied to us, which fueled my distaste for him and made me question his version of events even more than I already did.
 
Interesting to know at least, but the more important task at the time was finding a way out. This way out eventually became known to us when, following Kiyari as she trailed away from her allies, we stumbled upon a large statue of a cloaked figure that she knelt in front of. Apparently our presence at this instant in the memory triggered a portal to open, and lacking any other reasonable options, ourselves and the agents we found went through.
 
One of the agents and one of our own did not come through the portal when the rest of us did. There was a brief period of tension involving pulled guns between us and the agents, with accusations that this was planned and we were going to eat them or whatever. Eventually we calmed them down, and wandered around in the swampy terrain we now found ourselves in. The search was a short one, and once more we saw Kiyari kneeling before a statue similar to the one a minute or so ago, looking as though she was in a great amount of stress. But apparently this statue was super weird, because the Lich, Amon'zul literally stepped out of it. And then he tortured the fuck out of Kiyari. For like. Ten minutes. Everyone held various amounts of distaste for the entire thing. The only particularly interesting thing to note here is that it became apparent that Amon'zul's magic wasn't strictly that of a necromancer, as it had traces of Mesmer magic intermixed as well. Which shouldn't be possible. Which was interesting.
 
Eventually Galvar came running out of nowhere, and shouted at Amon'zul to let her go. I was personally stunned by this, because of how braindead stupid it was. An experienced warrior chases after his lover with no backup and no plan worth a damn - and the second he gets close, he just shouts at the guy torturing her to "let her go". The situation played itself out predictably. Kiyari was "let go" in exchange for Galvar taking her place, Galvar attempted to betray this new deal (I call it a deal but it was more of a desperate 'take me not her' sort of thing), and then Amon'zul ripped him in half. Literally In half - He grabbed a Norn and tore him into two separate pieces. With his bare hands. Which was interesting.
 
Then a portal opened. At this point, the memory started to replay again and we decided no further information could be gleaned, so we went through it. The remaining two Eye agents were lost in the transition, leaving only myself and two of my companions as we were shot out into a field slick with tar and oil. The memory playing this time was what I assume to be the battle where Kiyari stabs Morgana. There was a lot of fighting I don't care to describe so just imagine people stabbing each other and that's pretty much it. We spotted Kiyari wandering through the maelstrom, and followed her until at last she fell to her knees. As he did, a wraith of Amon'zul's shape materialized behind her, black robe billowing. And from the robe was spewed forth what looked like a pitch-black representation of a human, whose features were not discernable in the slightest. It reached forward its hands, and from its palms lifted strands of magic that were easily identified as a Mesmer's magic. Illy then identified this as a soul bound to a Necromancer's will, and the connection was made immediately after.
 
Amon'zul has bound at least one soul to his will, and apparently can call on them at will. This makes him exponentially more dangerous, because he potentially has any school of magic we know of - and probably a few we don't - at his disposal.
 
Great. And to make things even fucking worse, the wraith-like representation of Amon'zul that we thought was a memory turned to acknowledge us. And then out stepped Amon'zul himself. We started talking shit to each other almost instantly. Well I started talking shit to him anyway, mostly threatening to dunk his head in a toilet and drown him. It was strange to have him fire back in more or less the same style. What I thought would be flinging shit at an unmoving, expressionless lich actually turned into an animated argument like the ones I had in college, complete with threats and references to inadequacy in sexual relationships.
 
Somewhere in this shit-slinging (That I was kind of enjoying until he accused me of growing tired of Sperra, which pissed me off.)  Amon'zul revealed to us that the spirit of Galvar we had as a "companion" from the beginning was actually himself, wearing Galvar's soul fragments like a suit. He intended it to be some grand shock to all of us but it just made me feel completely justified in my extreme distaste I had the entire time. He also mentioned that he would, when he got the chance, take Illy's body for his own, commenting that "A Sylvari sounds interesting to take for a spin".
 
Anyway at some point or another Illy forced open the portal we used to get here while Amon'zul didn't bother to stop us for some reason, and got us out. The entire time this was happening was spent by me thinking about the dimensions of the toilet that I would put Amon'zul's head into.
 
So that's pretty much it. The spirit we understood to be Galvar was actually Amon'zul the entire time. He's now active in the world again in a limited capacity because he now has a body (I guess), and somehow the tomb associated with Morgana Draona is now an object of extreme interest, given that it is also supposedly the resting place of Amon'zul himself.
