---
layout: post
title: I don't like The Mists either
adventure_set: A long, strange story
adventure_number: 5
post_number: 13
---

Naturally, the desire to get into the tomb was mirrored by the Eye, and because an indestructible monster thing aptly named "Dreadwalker" is guarding the entrance to the tomb we couldn't just walk in the front door. The solution was the one I mentioned in the "Turns Out You're All Wrong" section. If you don't remember that part, we would use the Mists. There's a gargantuan amount of planar mathematics involved but for the purposes of this section you can imagine it as calculating the location of mostly stable pathways in the Mists which will get us to defined points in Tyria, the tomb presumably being one of them.
 
I spent the next few weeks working with the Arcane Eye on this. The amount of golem processing power required to do this can not be understated, and even when we got what we needed and a point by which we could easily get into the tomb was found, some calculations were simply too much even for the massed processing power that the Eye could provide. In any case, we had successfully determined a path into and out of the Mists. The only thing we needed to do was take the path laid out.
 
So when the time came, as many of the Coalition we could manage were called upon: Plutonk, myself, Gren, Harpp, and Illy. Less than I had hoped, but I could not ask for better. And once the plan was established, we set forth into the Mists. How exactly we got into the Mists was again, a project worked on mostly by people that knew how to get into the Mists so I can't really speak on it. But they made a portal and I made absolutely sure that we weren’t going to destabilize anything as we entered.
 
The traversal through the Mists was largely uneventful, beyond one thing which I will note here. Along the path, I was given a vision. No creature or god gave it to me, I believe it was simply a phenomenon of the Mists, wherein for a brief moment in time, my mind was transplanted to another version of myself, as if myself and this different version were existing in the same space. This version of myself was standing on a beach, collecting starfish with a woman with yellow eyes who was currently sitting down, facing me. It was… Peaceful. Extraordinarily peaceful. She looked confused, and asked me "Were you going to say something?" I didn't recognize her whatsoever, but at the same time she felt familiar. I felt the urge to tell her that I thought she was lovely. At the same time, I suspect the version of myself that I was melding with saw an unstable road in the Mists, heart pounding as anticipation for the coming confrontation in the tombs builds.
 
If I had the chance, I don't know if I would have stayed on the path. Something seemed so simple about the beach. There was a version of me that did not carry weapons around at all times, was not a mercenary continually exposed to the horrors of war and the like. That was… Normal. Unmarred, falling in love. I wanted that to be me. I wanted to be done with this. To turn back the clock seven years, and take an entirely different path. I wanted to go home. I wanted to cry.
 
But I could not stop now. The Coalition needed me, and the consequences for failure were too much to ignore. At last we exited through the Mists, and entered the tomb of Morgana Draona. Which was less interesting than I thought it would be. There was a ghostly torch on the far wall, a sarcophagus on a raised platform, and runes all over the place. And no sooner did we went the tomb did the Dreadwalker enter it. Howling like the mad beast he was, the towering thing stormed into the tomb, and made ready to attack us. Before this happened though, he faltered, and instead settled next to the sarcophagus. Illy noted that he seemed unwilling to fight in the tomb lest he hurt his long dead lover. Which I thought was horse shit, but I went with it and told him to fuck off. And to my surprise he responded to us with words, choking out a haphazard disaster of a sentence that communicated that he must guard the tomb.
 
At this point I just kind of zoned out, but as I understand it the Coalition somehow convinced the Dreadwalker to abandon his post on the promise that we would see to it that Amon'zul is locked tight into his prison (Which we had apparently weakened when we freed part of Galvar's spirit from that torch thing a couple chapters ago.) Anyway after the Dreadwalker entered the Mists portal we entered through (Which I was furious about because he absolutely could have helped us if something went wrong), we surmised that we needed to craft a new binding enchantment to ensure that the remaining spell biding the Lich to his prison did not collapse, and so Illy began working on a spell to do just that. She also noted  that the torch on the far wall was as of right now, the only thing keeping Amon'zul chained in his sarcophagus.
 
About halfway through this spell, all hell breaks the fuck loose. You see, at some point after the Dreadwalker vacated the area, Gren went towards the entrance of the tomb to secure it, and we didn't hear him call in when he should have. Plutonk went to check on him, and just as he rounded the corner, Gren was pouring bullets down the hallway into the tomb proper. And from the corner burst an Asura. Milli, in fact. Or rather it wasn't Milli, but rather SR-4, the vaguely referenced Inquest experiment that apparently intended to release Amon'zul from his prison for some reason. The body was heavily augmented with cybernetics, and from the body protruded what I can only describe as spider-like limbs, which SR-4 skillfully used to traverse the tomb's walls faster than we could react. She reached the torch, and with one proper swipe, snuffed it out.
 
And then out from the sarcophagus burst a wraith-like Amon'zul.
 
Fuck.
 
FUCK.
 
It's at this point that I more or less lose track as to what happens with Amon'zul. I did note that Amon'zul and SR-4 interacted with each other as if they knew who the other was, which was interesting. Illy is immediately possessed, but the binding spell she was readying somehow fucked with the possession or something. I was far more focused on killing SR-4 - who by this point was scaling onto the ceiling to scream at us about breaking her other bodies. And so combat properly began. Plutonk rounded back into the tomb to help Harpp deal with the possessed Illy, Gren started shooting the fuck out of something or other outside, and I went toe to toe with a cybernetically enhanced Inquest experiment.
 
I decided that she had me outmatched in dexterity, strength, and magical prowess, which demanded that I must fight unconventionally. So I set my trap. First, I teleported with a crack of thunder right into SR-4's face, and swung at her with my sword in my usual style. She blocked this with one of the spider limbs not being used to keep her latched to the ceiling and looked pretty smug when she did. I immediately started falling, and fired my revolver at her. The bullet was one of Hisa's designs - a targeted dispel, which upon contact with one of her spider limbs, rendered it useless. Not good enough, as she remained latched onto the ceiling. I used the same teleportation to get me safely to the ground and immediately transitioned to earth magic. Using this new element, took control of the stone SR-4 was latching on to and split it apart, opening the tomb up and destroying the grip she had on the ceiling. She was falling now, but instead of panicking she fired a necromancer's bolt at me, before pointing her limbs like daggers at me as she fell. Which was exactly what I wanted.
 
The trap was set, but to complete it I had to accept the bolt fired at me. Immediately, I felt feverish. My tongue felt numb, my flesh withered and looked as though I was afflicted with leprosy. But she was coming at me, and I made a bet that she couldn't readjust while she was falling.
 
I acquired some time ago a dagger that opens portals to anywhere in Tyria and the Mists, though at the cost of creating a demon mist dog monster soul hunting… Thing at either the entrance or exit portal. The plan was to open a portal to literally anywhere in the Mists, hope the demon dog doesn't appear on my side of the portal, and then seal it with the same dagger with the intention of trapping SR-4 in the Mists with no escape.
 
It worked flawlessly. SR-4 sank into the portal screaming with rage and I felt really god damn cool. Unfortunately the combination of magical illness and the two portals now existing next to each other in close proximity made it impossible to properly close the portal I had just created Trying to close it only resulted in the tear widening, which provided ample time for SR-4 to return, while also shunting Dreadwalker/Torvar back into Tyria (though as a Norn spirit and not a gangly asshole that screams. Apparently entering the Mists freed him of his curse.) Closing the portals took the work of the spirit of Morgana and Dreadwalker/Torvar (Morgana apparently being shot back into Tyria at the same time Amon'zul awoke, which I didn't see.) I decided to round on Amon'zul, who at this point was back into wraith form, holding a very badly wounded Illy hostage with a knife (Maybe a sword arm? Not sure, too far away) to her throat, screaming some bullshit about how he won't be beaten. So I shot him.
 
Well I shot near him, but it distracted him enough for Harpp to stab him with a magic sword that sucked him into it or something. Look, by this point I was becoming delirious from magic leprosy and whatever else I got hit with. I wasn't exactly having a good time. Anyway apparently SR-4 managed to crawl out of the Mists before the portal closed because I saw her running for her life too, but I'm still counting this as a win and any complaints as to the contrary can fuck off. So Amon'zul is sealed in the sword. We briefly negotiated with Morgana and the Dreadwalker/Torvar and ended up with the agreement that they should take the sword to put it somewhere in the Mists rather than on Tyria, locking it up tight so no one can find it. Someone came over and dispelled the magic disease shit but I still felt horrible so around this time I just laid on my back and stared up at the tomb ceiling until I got carried out.
 
Thus ends the chain of events that started over a year ago. A dangerous Lich is freed and then resealed, and an Inquest experiment remains at large. Doubt she'll fuck with me again though, tell you that much.

