---
layout: post
title: The Elona job
adventure_set: Calypso
adventure_number: 7
post_number: 1
---

So after the events of Morgana's tomb, the Coalition once more sank into a slumber of sorts and left me on my own. Boredom came rather quickly and once more I was spending inordinate hours having really in depth conversations about metaphysics, the meaning of life, and the advancement of gunpowder based weaponry with Gardenbot. Unfortunately these conversations were rather one-sided given Gardenbot had limited intelligence and couldn't talk. Eventually I decided to contact an associate of mine that I have a decent relationship with for jobs to take - the mercenary kind, of course. As it happens, there indeed was a job for me, and south into Elona I went. Don't ask me exactly where because I don't care enough about Elona to record that shit.
 
The group assembled was myself, three Charr, and one Sylvari (Who I'll refer to as Blue for your sanity). Organizing us was another Charr who I am relatively familiar with, and a Sylvari (Purple) that was accompanying him. Purple would be the 'team lead' in the loosest of senses. We were all told to introduce ourselves, and I told my Charr acquaintance to announce me. Naturally he refused so I announced him announcing me for him, which annoyed him to no end so mission accomplished.
 
Anyway the job was to track down a fugitive that had escaped from a botched… Apprehension attempt? Or attempted assassination or whatever. The gist of it was that our (our in this case definitely not including me) agents got into a shootout in a tavern and the fugitive collapsed the building to escape. So now we're tracking her down with the intention of bringing her to justice since a lot people died in the building that collapsed. "Justice" in this case was outlined very specifically as "extracting any useful information and leaving her corpse in a ditch in the desert somewhere", which I decided was fucking stupid and would do everything I could to prevent a needless execution on the side of the road somewhere.
 
We set off for a big temple of Kormir and the village of Weli (wheli, welli, wellhi, welee?) where our quarry was last spotted. It was assumed that she was hiding out in the temple proper, probably for medical reasons given the injuries suffered in the previous encounter with our agents. First thought was naturally to check the medical wards. The cavalier guards at the village were very definitely bribed in our favor, which made approaching the village armed and dangerous rather simple. From here, the party split into two groups.
 
Myself, Blue, and one Charr would ask the priests for the whereabouts of our target. The two other Charr would ask arriving refugees from the endless bullshit happening in southern Elona. Simple enough. Purple would stay in Weli and do whatever the fuck.
 
Approaching the temple was dreadfully boring and the Priests largely dodged the question or were just clueless. I was however, harassed by one of the first priests we spoke with to leave my loaned raptor by the stables in the village instead of bringing it into the temple. I wasn't about to abandon my speed advantage this close to the target, so obviously I ignored him and he followed me all around until I at last got tired of listening to him and told him that it was his now and he could do what he wanted with it. Apparently he didn't like this solution, but neither could I be bothered to take it back to the stables so eventually he resolved to just take the raptor to the stables himself. He wouldn't get very far before the raptor dug in its heels and refused to move, which I considered a success.
 
Around this time, more or less all of the team was advancing towards the medical station, and I decided to follow. Not very long after that, the target - a human female that looked to be in her twenties and was definitely wounded - leapt from her bed, and made a break for the northern entrance that coincidentally we had come in from. I assume that she was headed for the pilfered mounts she probably had at the stables, but I was much closer to the entrance so she didn't have that much of a chance at escape. She made a good show of it and was caught somewhere near the front of the temple, and started causing hell in the Temple by shouting for help and fire. I headed for Purple - still in Weli - to tell her what was going on. General chaos was starting to erupt in the temple which gathered the attention of the cavaliers, so informing the team lead felt like a good idea. This took far longer than I thought it would, but I got permission to do some "non-lethal" violence. I then promptly returned across the bridge and encouraged the target to properly surrender by putting two rounds from my revolver just near her legs. Which worked, and she was shortly bound to be shipped back.
 
After encouraging the target to surrender, I noticed that one of the priestesses had been rather badly injured in the chaos. I would learn later that this priestess was our target's mother, and had been so wounded by one of our Charr agents in an attempt to help our target escape from the temple. I lost track of the target by this point, focusing on ensuring the priestesses' survival. But when I got next to her she just spat at my shoes so I chucked a few ice balls at her before considering the job done and returning to Purple at the village. I was given some gummy bears for my troubles and relaxed for a few minutes.
 
I realized my mistake far too late. Myself, Purple, and Blue were still with me at Weli, but the three Charr and the target were long gone.
 
I rushed after them as fast as I could, but I arrived far too late to change anything. A few miles west of the village, on the side of the road, the target lay bound up and dead with the three Charr nearby. I don't know what happened there. Upon inspecting the corpse, there was a clean knife wound on the back of her neck. Supposedly it killed her quickly with as little pain as possible, which was a little comforting. The three Charr seemed to be almost a bit solemn at the kill, not that they'll get any god damn sympathy from me.
 
None of that matters now. Two of the Charr left, and I considered all three of them to be effectively rabid animals that would have butchered the entire temple if they didn't have a leash on them. For a moment I considered gunning down the third Charr that was left looking over the body. I had the range and the advantage of surprise. If I was fast enough, I could have killed her before she understood what was going on. But, I didn't. Eventually the Charr asked what should be done with the body, and I responded as viscerally as you can imagine. To her credit, she noted that she could and maybe should take the body to the temple, but in the end I took the target's body back myself. And that, more or less, ends this section.
 
Calling the Charr animals is most likely too harsh. They are mercenaries. The real kind; The ones out for themselves and their own, killing when it suits them and not particularly caring about anyone else's thoughts on the matter. The Coalition operates entirely differently. I operate differently. And if nothing else, reacting so poorly to the target's death is a good thing for me. If ever I reach the point where I don't care, I have lost the entire point of why I do these things in the first place and should put down my arms and retire.
