---
layout: post
title: The Elona job but not in Elona
adventure_set: Calypso
adventure_number: 7
post_number: 2
---

**This section has a few references to severe bodily trauma. If that bothers you I suggest not reading this.**

Have you ever looked back on a situation and decided that you fucked up so completely that the only reason you made it out was dumb luck? I certainly haven't. Anyway following the events of "The Elona Job" I took it upon myself to figure out what the fuck was even going on. I regret this decision because everyone involved with these people is an asshole and I despise the lot of them.
 
First, the plot. There are two families that you need to know about. The Sables, and The Gamboges. The Sables raise jackals and the Gamboges raise something else that I can't remember. Goats I guess, it's not important. These fuckers situated themselves far outside of the reach of the Kingdom of Kryta far into the Woodland Cascades in an effort to avoid taxes, law, and general decency. Eventually this maelstrom of dumb ended up with the Gamboges hiring some mercenaries to capture and murder the two Sables so the Gamboges can walk in and take their ranch for themselves. Which they did, but the part about killing the Sables failed.
 
So the Sables were rescued by another team and then came time to retake the ranch itself, which I was party to. The plan was pretty simple. Get in, get the jackals out, and then stamp out any resistance. The plan then developed into something much more complex with many more points of failure, and it ended up being thus. I would have Mesmer magic applied to me to make me look like one of the Sables. Purple (The team leader from "The Elona Job")  would escort me to the Gamboges - a prick named Kurtis and his asshole wife Sally - and then both of us together would kill both of them as quietly as possible with as few witnesses as possible. Those of you that have seen me fight know I'm not really that well suited to the quick and silent killing of targets that have eyes on me, but I played with the hand I was dealt and went along with it. The other two members of our party, that being a Sylvari and Charr, would extract the jackals and then deal with anyone putting up a fight. How exactly we would get into close distance of the Gamboges was that Purple would give one of the Sables (Me in disguise) to the Gamboges, and through that Purple hoped to get close to the Gamboges to negotiate a fake deal whereby I would be effectively sold to them. I didn't bother learning the details and for the most part just focused on playing the part of someone being sold out to be killed.
 
The other part of our team was pleased with their role well enough, so planning was short. Within the hour we made our way deep into the Woodland Cascades to the ranch taken over by the Gamboges. I didn't realize the settlement was walled and guarded, but Purple announced herself to the guards and we made our way into the ranch. Kurtis Gamboge met us in a central front yard kind of place and acted like he was personally dubbed King of the Wood(land Cascades) by what's left of the human gods. And then myself, Purple, and Kurtis entered the central building that was probably the main residence that once housed the Sables and the ranch hands. Sally Gamboge was waiting for us on the ground floor, and rather quickly Kurtis bade me sit with Sally as he walked up some nearby stairs with Purple to discuss the finer details of the faux deal that she had set up.
 
So before long, there I sat on ground level with Sally Gamboge, one of the targets. She stood some ten or so feet away, which was far too much for me to engage and score a lethal blow as quickly and quietly as I needed to. I spent the next few minutes speaking with her, trying to weigh just how complicit she was in this mess, or if she really needed to die for the sake of the Sables. It quickly became apparent that she was indeed complicit. It was also made very clear that after my usefulness was at its end, I would be "Split from groin to mouth" like a pig or something.
 
So, after sort of kind of distracting her by talking about Fitzen things, I just leapt onto the table, dropped the illusion, and tore her throat asunder with a quick cut from my sword. Clean, and quick. Sally fell from the chair and within a few moments was already on death's door. I'm still not sure if I made the right decision. She was unarmed, but could have easily had a dagger or something similar concealed on her person to fight back. I made the decision to execute someone unaware and unarmed. I apologized, told her it would be quick, and just then a single gunshot came from the floor above me, alerting me to the fact that Purple's assassination attempt had failed, and a proper fight had begun between the two.
 
I rapidly teleported myself up the stairs and room to room to find where the fight was and within a couple seconds I burst out onto the balcony where Kurtis was standing with a gun over Purple, who was laying on the floor and bleeding rather profusely from the neck.
 
He turned and shot at me immediately, just missing my head. I shot at him in the same way with the same results, and sprinted forward as he shot at me again.
 
I would learn later that the shot struck from the top of my eye socket to the bottom of my jaw.  Kurtis was killed not long after by the charr from the other team. Later on, I would learn that Sally was indeed an awful piece of shit, ordering or allowing the death of multiple other farmers and ranchers for various reasons. I guess this justifies her death retroactively, but I killed her without this knowledge. Either way both of the Gamboges were dead, and the ranch was returned to the Sables.
 
And now I sit here in this hospital room, with the nurses trying to open the door I have barricaded closed with a few well placed chairs and miscellaneous objects. My left eye is gone. The left side of my jaw has been replaced with a temporary prosthetic to allow me to speak with some clarity, though I can't eat solid food. The damage to the face is, in a word, catastrophic. The people I worked with apparently have fleshcrafters that can repair the damage at no cost, though it will take more than a month for me to enter the condition to allow such things. Prosthetics were also offered, but I would sooner tear out the other half of my jaw before I subject myself to the misery of being unable to eat without assistance while I get used to the prosthetics. I will have it healed, or it will stay that way forever.
