---
layout: post
title: That Second Thing a Second Time
adventure_set: Nameton
adventure_number: 9
post_number: 3
---

As said in the previous section I didn't bother to attend the negotiations with the bandits at the Evertree. Plutonk went by himself apparently, which if I had known he was going alone I would have went with him but he came back without a problem so whatever. The results of the negotiations were outrageously stupid. The bandits didn't trust us, and in order to win their trust - which I don't think we need because fuck them they're bandits in the woods - we must assault and capture a previously human checkpoint nestled in a valley that connected the farmer's fields to the woodlands proper. The checkpoint at that moment in time was held by a few platoons worth of centaur. Not the easiest nut to crack but siege warfare isn't something I'm not accustom to.

The far more irritating problem with this is that we have to prove ourselves to the bandits. We. Have to prove ourselves. To bandits. Fuck that. I'm Fitzen, god damnit. We're the Errant Coalition. If you've read half the shit I've written down here then what more do I have to prove? I am literally uncovering the secrets of an ancient Jotun sorcerer as I write this. I could probably start mopping the floor with the entire centaur garrison at that checkpoint on my own. I don't need to prove shit, they can get bent drop, drop dead, and fuck off. If anything they need to prove themselves to me before I burn their tight-assed little shrine to the fucking ground.

Whatever. Also some asshole Charr approached us with her human friend. She wanted to fight the demon that took her shadow or something, I wasn't listening that much. Didn't like her hair either but Plutonk let them come with us. On one hand I don't like bringing random people along because they could try to stab us. On the other hand, more bodies.

We decided to wait until just before dawn to do the assault. Plutonk very much wanted to do it in the middle of the night, but I was supposed to be providing ranged support and I couldn't guarantee that I would hit the right people so dawn it was. With that established the plan was simple. I would stay very far away with my trusty scoped rifle and shoot people while everyone else runs up to the wall and then gets inside and kills everyone.

So the valley itself is heavily wooded, and not in that garden way where there's grass and trees. This is a forest with thick shrub everywhere - you can't traverse in without a hell of a lot of effort and even when you do traverse it, it's going to be slow. So the only quick way into the checkpoint is a single, winding path that lasts for say a fourth of a mile. That winding path then opens up into a cleared section that lasts for about a hundred yards. Then you get to a big wall which has a big hole in the middle of it that acts as the way through. The wall is pretty damn thick, made of stone, and is at least a couple of stories high. Not fun.

I posted myself up on a hill that had a relatively clear view into the valley and the wall. Sheska stayed with me while everyone else decided the best course of action was to try and climb the wall and or generally rush in. I didn't really have a better plan that didn't involve catastrophically damaging the wall so I just let them do their thing and focused on myself. The path was fairly narrow but the centaur could easily storm down it and get into melee with me, which I rather wanted to avoid so I set to work with my magic to churn the earth of the path and then soak it with water so it would turn soupy. Hopefully that would at the very least slow down a charge when it comes.

After that short delay, the other team gave me the all clear to fire the first shot and I surveyed the wall and its surroundings to get a good idea of what I should kill first. The wall was generally manned by rifle wielders not too dissimilar to the rifles owned by the militia. Trap-doors, muzzle loaders, that sort of thing. In the end I chose to put a bullet into the skull of one of the stronger, sword and shield wielders down at the gap in the wall to give the rest of everyone an easier time past it. The first shot was fired, first blood was ours, and the game was on.

Most of the following events I didn't witness. People got onto the walls, people rushed into the gap. There was yelling, gunfire, magic. I decided not to fire into melees because that's the best way to blow out the back of a friend's skull and instead just laid there in the grass watching the chaos, on occasion nailing someone that looked like they weren't being actively attacked. Not too long into the general chaos, a bunch of centaur rushed out of the gap in the wall and down the path towards me. It looked like they weren't specifically gunning to get me but were more just trying to get out and regroup somewhere or something. They got stuck in the mud thankfully, and I would have just taken my time picking them off if Sheska didn't just rush in and get stuck in the mud with them.

So I had to follow her in. I made a point of leaving anyone that was combat ineffective alive, but that was pretty few and far between and now that I look back on it that was probably stupid and put other people in danger for no reason. Whatever. We killed some centaur, avoided getting stuck in the mud with them because of my use of water and earth magic, and headed over to the wall where the rest of the team was apparently getting pinned down by a hell of a lot of gunfire coming from the opposite side of the wall.

I arrived on the scene to see the other side of the wall to be an actual centaur camp, with scaffolding on this side that led up onto the battlements where most of the team found themselves, though again separated by the gap in the center. Getting up onto the wall was trivial and from there I made a brief reconnaissance of the other side of the wall. Mostly just centaur with various rifles. Quite a few of them too, which was a problem but nothing I couldn't handle with working some angles to get safe shots on people not looking my way. This plan of "take it slow" evaporated when the centaur brought up a catapult. And also one of their earth shamans.

So that was a problem. Given I was pretty much the only one in the group that could rapidly transport myself I teleported over to the catapult and ruined its winching mechanism to ensure it never got the chance to fire. Problem was that the earth shaman was right there so shit got pretty wild pretty quickly. I tried to attack him from above, tried to shoot him, tried to stab him. Unfortunately he had a fairly large magnetic shield that stopped anything with any kind of metal content, and apparently that asshole Charr from earlier apparently invisibled her way down here and was failing miserably to attack the shaman as well.

So I teleported back onto the wall, where I expected everyone else to be. But for some fucking reason they all rushed down to attack the shaman too for some reason without even bothering to clear out the centaur around them first. Thankfully Sheska was dealing with that by raising a bunch of corpses and sending them into the fray so the fight turned into an incomprehensible melee with guns and magic and swords and other stuff everywhere. I just sat down and started thinking of a way to get past that shield while the shaman turned his attention to the wider group and starting destroying them. The way the team advanced meant they only had one narrow avenue to attack the shaman, so he just launched stuff down that narrow stretch as everyone came up. Plutonk should be very thankful that his armor is so well crafted, because if it wasn't he would have died there. I don't know how the others didn't die.

So eventually I just settled on launching ice lances at him. No metal content, and I could control the lances as they were in the air to guide them and put some more punch behind it. That worked pretty well, and while it didn't score a clean kill the first one punched a good hole in him and the second one more or less killed him. The shaman was dead, the centaur were running or dead, and the checkpoint was now ours. Not sure what the hell we are going to do with it but at least the fields are a bit safer than they were. Also a couple human bandits were there too but they didn't do anything of note beyond get shot. I think they're both still alive though, so that's nice.
