---
layout: post
title: And Then the Inquest Got Involved
adventure_set: Nameton
adventure_number: 9
post_number: 4
---

So we dealt with the centaur more or less. I'm sure they'll be back but we'll deal with that when they inevitably show up and surprise us. I guess we're starting on the cynicism early too.

So the bandits were a thing and blah blah politics. The bandits are Edgar's loyalists and for some reason the Coalition has decided we need to fix this. Personally I'm of the opinion that we can't fix this shit and we shouldn't bother trying. Edgar got overthrown by Brock and no one inside the town really seems to give that much of a fuck, so I doubt Edgar's rule - if we even reinstate him - will go smoothly and if we don't kill Brock he'd just overthrow Edgar again the second we turn our backs and fuck off. So personally I'm all for just leaving after we confirm the Torment stuff is dealt with.

Which as it happens is where this section picks up. We went to some abandoned or whatever human settlement not too far away from the town to meet with Edgar and two of his friends or something. I don't really remember why, probably because as stated previously I don't think this is our problem and we're wasting our time. The abandoned town was probably abandoned a few years ago but the unburnt parts seemed to show fine (for a human) craftsmanship. Someone put effort into the place which is why I guess the buildings are still sort of standing.

Which is fucking stupid by the way. This is centaur territory. Deep centaur territory. Seraph don't come out here. Why in the name of the Fuck family tree would you ever consider building a set of nicely furnished and well built homes with absolutely zero means of defending them? No palisades, no walls, no fortifications worth a damn. The whole thing reinforces the point I made about Cantha. The only thing that makes human civilizations great are circumstances completely outside their control. Otherwise they fuck up and do dumb shit like this. Whatever. I started ripping up cobblestones and stacking them around as some rudimentary cover from projects and then everyone just sort of waited around.

Okay now quick divergence. I left out one of my adventures in this place because it didn't really warrant its own section but there's an important bit of context you need for what happens next. The Evertree is a tree supposedly blessed by Melandru a few miles away from Nameton. I went there, discovered that it certainly looks the part, and pulled two fruits from its branches. The fruits are definitely magic but I haven't looked into that too heavily. What I can say for sure is that the fruits give a feeling of calm when held, and that when peeled, the actual fruit part will display Tyria's night sky like you were looking through a spyglass. There's probably some real significance there but it hasn't crossed my mind yet. Also there was a box full of gunpowder. That's important later but yea. Just know there's a box of gunpowder laying in the ruins.

Back to the story I was playing around with the fruit and I felt it tugging northwards somehow and I was then made aware of three approaching presences. They ended up being Edgar and two of his friends so I went back to my fruit thing to play around with it some more and ignored whatever conversation was going on. That was, until, the fruit tugged vaugely towards the east and I again became aware of a new presence. This one did not approach, and instead prowled around the treeline a few hundred yards away. Pulling up my rifle and observing through the scope revealed that it was a big nasty Torment monster so I started shooting at it. Which did fuck all because damn was this thing fast. So fast in fact, that I decided that being on the ground was a terrible idea. I teleported onto a building's roof and waited there while everyone else, after becoming aware that a Torment monster was around, milled about like lemmings. 

And then a couple seconds later I lost sight of it and then it was below the group. No I don't know how that happened so don't ask me. But it was there and then the ground erupted and shit was flying everywhere. The thing was pretty god damn big, the best part of a full house. Everyone was freaking out, boulders and dirt and parts of ruined houses were getting thrown around, Edgar and his two friends were probably screaming. The whole thing was a massive blur of me trying to take control of the earth surrounding this pitch black six-eyed demon… Thing while people starting trying to hit it or some shit. I got a pretty good grip on it considering its size and strength but that was a losing battle until someone had the bright idea of throwing the powder box at the thing and lighting it up.

So yea, that killed it in one shot. And the house I was standing on too. The concussive force of that explosion felt like it should have killed me but I felt my back slam into some soil not long after so I guess not. Sheska got to me pretty quick though so that got sorted pretty quick. Probably a few broken ribs and vertebrae but Sheska's a Necromancer and they can cure anything apparently.

More importantly there was an Inquest device in the body. Everyone else started talking amongst themselves but I went in to carve out the device in its body, which actually ended up being fairly extensive. The device itself was a magical capacitor centered in the chest of the beast with a variety of cables and tubes acting as a vascular system. The capacitor had a display that stated very clearly that it was overloaded with "Torment". I'm assuming this means magic but haven't looked too closely into it. Identification would eventually point to an Inquest Division "Causality Architectural" that operates mostly as a group focused on selling gadgets. So Inquest, but only corporate evil and not garden variety evil. The problem with all of this is that Causality Architectural has absolutely no fucking clue where this device came from. It's their design and their tech but nobody knows where this particular one came from.

Which was interesting. I've formed a very loose partnership with them to get some idea of what's going on but I don't exactly trust them either. We'll see as time progresses I suppose.
