---
layout: post
title: Rant
adventure_set: The Tarot
adventure_number: 8
post_number: 5
---

Alright strap in because boy oh boy does Professor Fitzen have some shit to talk about.

As sort of eluded to in the previous chapters, Dhergos was a Jotun Sorcerer from the last Dragonocalypse that used some whack ass alchemical processes to hoard mind boggling amounts of various types of magic. Enough so that he was able to carve out a section of the Mists, stabilize it, and make his own pretty big realm that he filled with 22 evil monsters or some shit linked to 22 cards that make up our Tarot. Dhergos used a lot of blood and other vile shit to accomplish his tasks and to no particular surprise the 22 monsters he created eventually freaked him the fuck out so he shut everything away and died somewhere.

I'm going to talk about his alchemical process that made him so powerful because that's what I've been doing ever since I quit Calypso.

I never found much of his writings, but what little I found was enough to go on to get me started. You see Dhergos was a proud beneficiary of something called luck. Luck in this form was a meteorite he was able to get his hands on. Essentially what he called meteorites are just rocks with Mists magic baked into it, and if you're really lucky these meteorites will contain a bunch of a crystal like substance that contains an unfathomably large amount of magic. Which I'm guessing is what Dhergos got.

Then he went on to ramble on about how great he was and in between gave some indication as to how these crystals were turned into something useful. Those useful things being: Hit it with moonlight, then hit it with sunlight, then hit it with starlight. You're also supposed to do some other stuff while this is happening but he didn't say anything about that stuff so I couldn't tell you.

So that's Dhergos's story. After my leaving Calypso I wasn't doing much else and I considered that if Calypso or Titanshadow got their hands on a large number of cards that could lead to some really, really awful shit. And it's not like I can just walk into Dhergos's realm so I'm on this try to see if there's something I can do there. Maybe if I make something equivalent to or better than the cards I can fight them on even terms rather than the usual "sticks and rocks against gods" shit I'm always shoved into.

Anyway I stole some meteorite chunks from someone that refused to sell them to me - Yes it turned violent no I don't care thank you and fuck off. The chunks were very unstable and I could only glean some useful information from them before they broke away and vanished, but I learned that the best method of accumulating these meteorites was to say nuts to the meteorites and go into the Mists to find what I want. Which I'm sure you'll notice is a running theme lately. If you have a problem the answer to it is probably just somewhere in the Mists. So I started working with a small Mists research krewe. If they helped me find these crystals I'd give them half of what I found provided they didn't go super evil.

Eventually we did in fact stumble upon some of these crystals, though it's probably not the same kind that Dhergos got. Through about a week's worth of work, the Mists crew happened upon a Mists realm that was essentially a gargantuan mine that was being worked by equally massive humanoid figures. You know, weird shit. They were mining equally massive crystals, though every now and then they left behind slivers of the stuff. Big to me, but to them it wasn't worth picking up. The giants shooed me away whenever I got close to them or the crystals they were mining but if I just minded my own business and stuck to extracting slivers they didn't really care about my existence which was fine with me.

Also the mine tried to get in my head and tell me to stay. Also the lower you went into the mine the more intense that was and the bigger and bluer the crystals became. And if you went lower enough the corpses of giants had crystals growing off of them.

So yea that was fucking weird. I was happy taking the crystals, compressing them down, and experimenting with them. For the most part I learned that these crystals were essentially glorified batteries with one anomalous property. These crystals could transmute magic itself. For instance - at a considerable loss - elementalist magic could be transmuted into mesmer magic. Which was pretty cool, but a bit useless to me because frankly Revenants and Mesmers are just straight up more useful than pretty much everything else. Revenants can make portals and hop in and out of the Mists at will so their mobility is second to none. They can retreat any distance to an location at will. Mesmers have mind fucking and they can screw with time. If I was any of those two things I might have a use for a lot of magic but to be honest the only thing I can do is "throw a bigger fireball" so It's not that exciting. I had the idea of putting the crystal into a big shoulder mounted magic weapon, or maybe sticking it in a golem but I don't have that expertise and once again, if I was a Mesmer or Revenant it's like building a bigger wall that people can just walk through. I'd like to say I'm not bitter but fuck it, I am. If I could trade my magic in I'd be a Revenant or Mesmer and so should you because they're better than you.

But then one day I suggested to the krewe that we should open a portal to the bottom of the mine to see what's actually down there. Sending golems in sent back half destroyed images of the golem's visual receptor being covered in crystals. Going in was apparently dangerous but I made the assumption that we could open a portal and just drag things out as it were one of the claw games. Being next to where this happened was probably dangerous though, so it needed to operate from a distance.

We set up the claw device and positioned ourselves in an observation room with shielded glass in case anything went wrong. Everything was situated, the claw activated, and a small portal opened. The portal then spewed forth an unbelievable amount of crystals, destroyed the claw, and ate through the observation room in less than five or so seconds. Of the twelve krewe members, I managed to get four out. Some of them were overwhelmed with crystals before they could turn around. Some of them ran and didn't get very far. Some of them were just unlucky. I could barely just save the four I did because they were positioned well enough for rapid successive teleportation to be enough to reach them before the crystals did. Now I've tasked those four with something, anything that could fight the crystals before they finish eating the trapped eight researchers. Part of me blames myself for having the idea to open the portal, but on the other hand fuck you, how in the god damn fuck was I supposed to know that the crystals would fill a room bigger than your house in less than a second? The twelve with me sure as fuck didn't have any reservations and they probably know more about the Mists than you do so frankly I consider this just another bit of evidence on the pile that Dhergos only got as powerful as he did because he got lucky. You might think that I'm bitter about this too, and you'd be right. Fuck Dhergos. Fuck Revenants and Mesmers too.

I suppose in the end I got what I wanted. I was looking for a weapon that could match and maybe beat the Tarot cards. I assumed the crystals would be that weapon, but all I really need is to be a Revenant so can just open a portal into that realm at a whim, and kill a whole city whenever I wanted. With all of this in mind now, I think we should kill all Revenants because they're quite literally too dangerous to be allowed to live.
