---
layout: post
title: Waste of My Damn Time
adventure_set: Wither
adventure_number: 9
post_number: 2
---

If you haven't looked at the previous entry, go check out the end paragraph before you read this. Decent for getting context.

Well the thing that I predicted to happen happened, but only mostly. After that disaster of an engagement in the forests of Brisban things started getting pretty wild. The biggest development was a new Nightmare Court entering the scene. This new Court is the Court of Domination. They specialize in taking prisoners and forcing them to fight through what seems to be mostly magical means, chief of which is a unique type of bark armor that encases the wearer and "dominates" them somehow. Research is still going into that but for the needs of the reader you can imagine than as slavers with a robot army. Sylvari get captured, get put in the armor, and bam you have what is essentially the perfect soldier - the only problem with them is that domination requires some kind of dominator relatively close by so it's not like there aren't ways to counter it.

Thankfully for our side The Courts of Wither and Domination apparently despise each other just as much as they despise us and I guess somewhere in the past few months Domination decided that Wither needed its teeth kicked in. So when Domination - based in western Brisban - decided to go on the warpath to where Wither was based - northwestern Caledon - there were a lot of settlements in the way that were definitely, definitely going to get raided and razed. Domination was heading south with not a little amount of siege weaponry[^fn-siege] and such along with the usual supply trains that all armies need to survive when there's nothing to eat on the way.

Okay I start this out by saying "Quick note" but it turned into a lecture on logistics. If you're stupid or you don't care you can skip the next 3 paragraphs to get back to the story. If you're really interested in reading my rambles about this stuff, good for you and maybe question why.

Quick side note regarding siege warfare in this context. As you're all probably aware, siege engines need to get to the siege to do some actual sieging, and they need stuff to fling at the enemy to be useful (Assuming they're not magic based, which is certainly possible but I'll get to that in a minute). They also need a lot of logistical support. Trained personnel to operate the equipment, trained personnel to maintain the equipment, and a whole supply network that gets equipment and personnel to where it needs to go.

None of this happens without roads. You might say that since Rata Sum has the Waypoint Network and the Gates, so why can't the Courts or anyone else just do the same thing? But a lot of people forget the time, effort, expertise, and money that goes into projects like the Waypoint Network and the Gates. These things are delicate creations that require a whole civilization's worth of progress and stability to properly operate. A functional civilization the Courts do not have. I don't care how good you are - One super special awesome Mesmer can not sustain the logistical requirements of a siege operation, and even if they were your literal survival hinges upon theirs, and that's stupid.

You then might say that the Courts don't need roads because they can just move through the forests because, I don't know, they're super in tune with nature or something. This is horse shit. The ox carrying your fucking wagon filled to the brim with heavy equipment isn't just walking through a dense forest miles upon miles upon miles long. It just doesn't work like that. Again, I don't care how good you are. Even if you had two dozen super special awesome druids really super in tune with nature, you can't just send an ox into the woods. You need something that big wagons, carts, and animals can use to travel on. And before you just say "I'll just make a series of smaller portals to skip around" then you should also remember that this logistics network needs to be reliable. Anyone using half of their brain will realize that cutting your logistics network up is one of their top priorities, and if all you have is a bunch of portals you shouldn't be surprised when the entire network grinds to a halt because some assholes planted bombs on the portal sites. And you might say "Well roads can get destroyed too", which is true but keep in mind it takes a lot less mechanical and magical knowhow to stack dirt and clear debris than it is to create and link portals everywhere. If your druids or whatever get shot and die, nobody can fix your logistics network. But everyone can slap dirt down and stomp on it a few times.

I forget what the point of this rant was and it got away from me but I'm not deleting it. Moving on.

So Domination started going on its rampage into northwestern Caledon not really all that far from the Arbor. The intention from all the equipment and other stuff that Domination was moving around made it pretty clear that they were intending to do some pretty nasty scorched earth shit to Wither's base of operations and the immediate surroundings. As in, they intend to destroy every plant, animal, and person anywhere even remotely close to where Wither was. Which frankly was a good plan - Wither apparently operates by using trees to move around, so obliterating every tree you can find is pretty good at taking away their mobility. The problem was that there are a bunch of settlements that are going to get caught in the conflagration which isn't really a good thing.

Naturally everyone decided that we should protect the civilian populations while letting Domination and Wither beat each other to death, but apparently my idea of 'protect' is far different than everyone else's. I wanted everyone evicted from their homes and moved elsewhere, the towns they inhabited burned so no courtier could make use of them. At bayonet's point if needs be, but apparently this was just inconceivable and we resolved to defend strategically useless towns. And their inhabitants.

So Wither and Domination beat the shit out of each other, burned, bombed, ruined, and other things to the jungle. Not to say that Caledon was ever a pleasant place, given the incredible amount of bugs, monsters, and fetid swamp water liable to rot your skin if you so much as look at it weird, but now it was on fire too. It's pretty hard to burn down a constantly wet jungle too, which shows how hard they really went at it. Anyway that happened for a while and Wither more or less lost the preliminary skirmishes which resulted in a siege of their strongholds. Wardens and apparently some "Allied"[^fn-courtiers] courtiers from the Court of Thorns set up blockades in various places to keep Domination from sending raids deeper into Caledon, which then heralded a stalemate. Wither was trapped in its strongholds, Domination was sandwiched in between us and Wither[^fn-trapped], and we were desperately trying to keep the apocalyptic levels of burninating from expanding any farther.

That's where I got involved. During this period of stalemate I got called in to help because an attack was expected by Domination against Wardens lines in the south. I arrived in a little Sylvari village surrounded by a swamp in northwestern Caledon with a shitty rickety palisade acting as its only real defense. Also the Wardens and a lot of the Coalition was there. Couple Courtiers too. So there's a bunch of smoke and fog everywhere and we can't see shit. Not long after I got there was a conversation as to what should be done to Domination's supply lines. Apparently they're just walking through the jungle and shit to get here, which Is why I was ranting earlier about logistics and supply lines. I also got kind of pissed off when someone made the very adamant demand that no matter what we don't kill the beasts of burden working in the supply trains because oh no that's cruel or something. If I talk about that anymore I'll go into a longer rant so I'm just going to say that's fucking stupid and I'm trying to win a war so I'll kill those animals in droves and not feel bad at all.

Anyway that happened, then Domination attacked out of the smoke. Domination fights by taking prisoners and encasing them in some really weird runed armor that slowly eats away at the inhabitant and dominates them (Hence the name) to do someone or other's bidding. A few well coordinated groups of them marched out of the fog in a shield-and-spear wall with some casters in the center holding up barriers to stop projectiles from hitting people. I was tasked with taking a slave soldier alive[^fn-alive] and I did that. The casters, I also noticed, were carrying gems. I couldn't exactly see what they were but they were sparkly number one, and number two casters holding things means they're important so I figured once I got the slave soldier secured I'd go after those things. Everyone else left the safety of the palisades for some stupid ass reason to go fight them in the swamp. I was kind of busy pulling a slave soldier out of the lines to give much a damn but that was happening. 

There was some fighting for a while and then a massive Mists portal opened up really, really violently and two Asura came out of it fighting one really big Mists creature thing. Also Domination broke and ran. Hell if I know how, but apparently that Domination magic got boned by the Mists portal tearing open. Half of the slave soldiers collapsed, the ones that didn't ran away. This also invalidated my earlier capture because now we had plenty of prisoners to rescue. Great.

Okay so the two Asura were on our side and the really big Mists creature thing wasn't. I didn't watch most of that fight because I wanted to find one of those crystals that the casters from Domination were using. So while some crazy shit was happening not too far away I ran over to look at one of the dead casters who had been killed by a massive arrow fired by an unreasonably tall and strong Sylvari whose name I never learned. I was a little disappointed to learn that this crystal I would find was little more than a battery. But, it still had a good amount of magic in it and there was a still a target in the form of a Mists monster tossing people around like ragdolls, so I turned on said monster and charged up a spell.

When I was gearing up to throw lightning at the Mists thing[^fn-lightning], there was just a shit ton of things happening. There were stars on the ground, petals and shit from one of the portal Asura, Plutonk was about to get stomped into the crust of the planet, someone was trying to fire a big anti-materiel rifle, the Mists monster was teleporting around and stuff, things were definitely going wild. In the next second or two I unleashed the spell, someone shot the Mists thing with said anti-materiel rifle, there was a bunch of stars and shit, and then the Mists monster just kind of exploded slash evaporated and died. Also the crystal cracked, which was kind of disappointing.

After that point there isn't much to talk about. Of the two Asura that came through the portal, there was one of ours and one from I guess a different Tyria where Rata Sum had collapsed or sunk or something. Oh, I also found a fish inside the ash-laden water around the swamp. It was probably going to die there so I took it home and put it in my fountain. Named it Fish. Sperra said it's going to die in the fountain but I don't see how - it's probably a freshwater fish in a freshwater fountain. What could go wrong? She probably had a fish when she was a progeny and never learned the real reason it died.



[^fn-siege]: Knowing we're dealing with Sylvari it was probably some stupid seed shooters but oh no they're big and might knock over a fence post if that fence post was rotted and mostly out of the ground
[^fn-courtiers]: We fought with them against Verve. See "A Record of Past Matters" for information on that. I don't like them at all and this so called alliance was purely because it was convenient.
[^fn-trapped]: I don't know how the siege progressed during the time.
[^fn-alive]: Which in hindsight was pointless because everyone and everything was all about trying to save them and not hurt them as much as possible.
[^fn-lightning]: I feel like I need something that hits harder than lightning but I genuinely don't know what that would be.
