---
layout: post
title: Dusk Part 2, Reckoning
adventure_set: The Tarot
adventure_number: 8
post_number: 9
---


Now with the context out of the way we arrive at the day where we assaulted the Sun itself. Generally speaking I considered myself a mostly[^fn-normal] normal person. I've fought all manner of things but a manifestation of a star stolen away and stored inside a Mists realm? This was possibly the most powerful thing I would ever go up against, and to be honest there wasn't much in the way of preparation I could do. To the credit of Calypso and myself, I had gathered up some Bloodstone armaments - mainly bullets and a shield that absorbs spells - to help me through it, but when you're going up against a star there's only so much you can do and before long the day came. There were two teams. One would confront Strength in the castle, while the other would bypass Strength and take out the Sun. There were three of us in the Sun team. Myself, Harpp[^fn-harpp], and Judas[^fn-judas]. My confidence at this point in the war was at an all time low. Sure; In the very beginning three of us took on the Jailer and won, but I had a weapon that did most of the work against it. And what is more, being in the presence of the Jailer didn't mean that using magic would set me on fire. How could we possibly replicate such a thing when we have no such weapon, no magic, and no idea what we're dealing with? Suffice to say I expected to die here. But it needed to be done, so I went.

Bypassing Strength was easy enough. A small if grim boost to my mood was on discovering Strength in the courtyard I noticed it was clawing at its stomach, splattering golden blood on the floor and walls. The bloodstone I shot it with was still affecting it. Weakened it, perhaps. If we waited a few years the thing might have even died from the wound. The other team engaged, and we followed our path straight to the teleportation stone and arrived at our destination.

We were inside the star. From the platform we stood upon we saw before us endless red. Beneath us, endless black void. There were several platforms ahead of us, and on a central platform lay the manifestation we were sent to slay. The eagle was as large as any dragon champion I had seen or heard of previous. Massive, beautiful golden feathers giving off their own intense heat were stained red and black with blood. It was mostly decapitated[^fn-dhergos], its head connected by remnants of the spine and flesh. Great and powerful, wounded and dying. It lay upon the platform, unmoving. All three of us took aim and fired our guns.

A shield activated, and all three of our bullets were caught and sent down into the void. And then the eagle awoke. With lumbering, slow movements the almost decapitated manifestation of the Sun roused from its death-like sleep. A great gout of blood and fire sprouted from its neck and formed a second head where the first should have been, and it spoke as if it were the blare of a thousand trumpets all directed at us, proclaiming its divinity and our doom. The three of us fired again. Harpp's and Judas's bullets failed to meet their mark. The bloodstone cut past the shield and carved into its chest - and I could see the magic being eaten away, but this beast was far, far larger than Strength. What caused Strength so much agony was a stray splinter to this thing.

The great thing reached out and snatched myself and Judas in its talons. Judas was dropped immediately afterwards, but then the great eagle took me and LATM[^fn-latm] high into the red sky I couldn't tell you the distance given the stark red sky and lack of other features giving me any sort of idea of scale, but it was really, really high up. And then it spoke to me, personally. Asking who I was and why I was here. The sound of its voice was almost deafening.

So I threatened the son of a bitch. First saying that I was here to kill Titanshadow and he was in my way - and he better damn well get out of it or I'll kill him. The Sun responded generally that I know nothing of what I'm doing and I am doomed to fail. I then informed The Sun that he didn't know who in the fuck he was talking to - everything up until now was just a speed bump to me getting my hands on Titanshadow, and once I do finally get my hands of that golden piece of shit, he's going to good and god damn get it. Harpp then made a horrifyingly accurate shot at extreme range and smashed the talons that held me. I was dropped, though the Sun being enraged by this dove down a hell of a lot faster than I fell and spewed fire upon both Harpp and Judas.

But the Sun's fatal fucking mistake was not killing me when he had the chance. I was in freefall atop LATM with the Sun below me, and I saw the only opportunity I needed. With a spray of lightning around me I drew my sword, dove, and shot straight for what remained of the Sun's neck, catching fire as I used air magic to guide me. Some ten thousand years had passed since Dhergos failed to kill the Sun and with one great cleave I sent its head into the great void below.

Typically you would imagine death would be instant at this point, but that thing still clung to what fleeting life it had left in it as it sputtered and jerked and heaved, and only when Judas delivered some final blows did that thing finally die. There was, unfortunately, no card to take, and the platforms we were standing on were collapsing underneath us so we left as soon as we were all together again through the portal stone. By what records I have it seemed like the other team killed Strength not too long after and actually found the card, which was also good to hear.

Thus ends this section. Titanshadow's font of magic is gone, the Sun is dead, Strength is ours, and the war continues with momentum on our side. I consider that a good day's work.


[^fn-normal]: Compared to other things and people I've seen, anyway. Generally violent and at times unreasonable? Sure. A mess of souls and blood and bones that wants to eat everything it touches? No.
[^fn-harpp]: Asura druid and also expert Marksman.
[^fn-judas]: Human. Elementalist I think?
[^fn-dhergos]: Done by Dhergos some ten thousand or so years ago.
[^fn-latm]: One of the Empress's beasts. A rideable mouse made of starlight. I call it LATM: Light Aerial Transportation Mouse. I found out it can't fly though, which kind of sucks. I don't know where I got the impression it could because now that I look back I was never told it could fly.