---
layout: post
title: Over in Twelve Seconds
adventure_set: The Tarot
adventure_number: 8
post_number: 10
---


Well the Sun is dead and before long it became apparent that it didn't really mean anything. The intention was to cut off Titanshadow's supply of Sun magic or whatever it was. I assumed that the death of the Sun would mean the death of the card and therefore the complete loss of Titanshadow's abilities to control that vast resevoir of magic, but evidently we were just wasting our fucking time because killing the Sun cut off the ability to create *more* magic instead of getting rid of the ability to control it at all. The whole situation was akin to cutting a pipe that fed into an ocean. Congratulations I guess, the ocean can't refilled but you're still dealing with an ocean. Honestly I'm not sure what the hell I even expected. Anyway not long after we killed the Sun Titanshadow sent some shadow people into Tyria or whatever and they tried to kill Erebus and almost succeeded. Didn't really pay attention to that but if he could get attacked then so could I.

And then we were tipped off to Titanshadow having a *factory* producing sun-based tech shit. I'm not explaining that but I hope you feel the nosebleed inducing rage I experienced while writing that. I'm holding back as hard as I can. I really, really am. Why the fuck did I risk my life taking out something that was completely inconsequential?

So we went to look at the factory and apparently that was a trap or whatever that we barely escaped and then everyone assumed there was a mole. I thought it was just dumb luck but we quickly figured out[^fn-mole] that there was one. You see what happened was that our "Chief Intelligent Officer" of Calypso who I never heard of before and never gave me anything useful was the one who fed us the information about existence of this factory. The intelligence about there actually being a factory was true, but after telling us about the factory the CIO then informed Titanshadow that we were going to attack the factory[^fn-titanshadow]. After we stumbled upon the answer as to how this happened - that being the **CHIEF INTELLIGENCE OFFICER OF THE CALYPSO COMPANY READ A TAINTED LETTER AND FELL UNDER TITANSHADOW'S SWAY** - the CIO was sent to a **A CLINIC THAT HAD VIRTUALLY NO SECURITY TO SPEAK OF** to extract what information we could and to potentially cure him. The death toll was impressive to be honest. The situation was finally brought under control when one of the last survivors - who also got infected with the mind virus - ripped out his own throat while singing some shitty nursery rhyme or whatever that essentially revolved around Titanshadow being the one true god or some bullshit like that.

So yea, not great. Everyone else seemed bothered about the death of the CIO but I didn't give too much of a shit. I learned about his existence a few weeks before his death so I barely knew his name by the time of his death so to me he was just another faceless casualty that was about as useful in death as he was in life. At this point I was convinced that our trajectory over the last few months was a waste of my god damn time and everyone else thankfully seemed to agree with that so we decided finally tighten our belts, suck it the fuck up, and go for the jugular[^fn-jugular]. The Empress finally decided to be properly useful as well and essentially gave us the ability to cast a massive null field over the whole tower and Calypso worked on some decent mortar shells so we could pound the shit out of Titanshadow's home before we walked in. A few of the more magically inclined among us got all concerned about how the null field will kill their own magic too, to which I remain eternally confused as to why people still don't have a backup to their magic since it gets removed all the damn time[^fn-magic].

The plan thus concocted was fairly simple. Titanshadow's base of operations was the Tower that first started this journey, but apparently the Tower card lets to manipulate the fabric of reality within the Tower's realm so he transformed it into Grothmar; A fortress whose only flaw is that it's impregnable construction was made entirely pregnable by the proliferation of cannons[^fn-cannons]. So with all of this in mind We would break into two teams. One team would secure the courtyard after bombardment and null field activation. The other team would be dropped into the the back of the fortress and attack Titanshadow's office. If you're aware of how Grothmar was constructed you might notice something about the office but I'll get to that later. I was with the office team because that was the best team and also personal grudges. Fucker stole my magic dagger and I wasn't going to just let him have it. There were four of us. Myself[^fn-me], Harpp[^fn-harpp], Yam[^fn-yam], and Ren[^fn-ren].

So the day came, the mortars hit, all hell broke loose and then we dropped in. I'm sure shit was absolutely going down, but I didn't really get to see much of that because we hit the ground running and got to the door to Titanshadow's office without being spotted due to some clever use of stealth signets and a portal by Yam. For some whack ass reason this door needed to be opened by two people pulling on levers at the same time. Ren and Harpp opened it with little difficulty and not too far past the door were six Charr waiting for us with rifles. They were probably some really badass top-tier pin-point accurate Charr with over 300 confirmed kills, but unfortunately I didn't give a damn so before I ducked down I chucked a bandolier of 10 grenades that went fucking perfectly in the middle of them. Yam also launched Death[^fn-death] not too long after and a few seconds later we were walking through the remains of five Charr and past one in-the-middle-of-being-consumed-by-Death Charr.

So like I said, there was something interesting about Grothmar's office. This interesting thing is that the only thing protecting said office from the outside is a glass dome. Magically reinforced, mind you, but that's against bullets. I've yet to meet a glass dome that can stand up to mortar shells. So Titanshadow was a bloody beat up mess standing in the fucked up remains of his office and without saying a word he brought up the Emperor's card and shit popped off from there. If you paid attention to the plan I talked about earlier the Empress gave us a way to put up a null field around the whole fortress, which you might think would lock down the Emperor card's abilities[^fn-mindcontrol] and Titanshadow's own innate mesmer fuckery.

You might be forgiven for thinking such things because I did too right up until the null field that was active up to that point flickered harder than a broken street lamp and everyone got their magic back. Titanshadow took control of Ren's brain immediately afterwards because of course he did and Harpp was turned into burnt bread while I and Yam teleported over to Titanshadow and tore him the fuck apart. I got there first, and no one ever told me about the mechanics of actually controlling the cards so I made the assumption that I could just cut off Titanshadow's hand and then take the card for myself. Which worked actually. I cut his hand off, took the card, and ran. Yam put a bullet in his head right after and that was more or less it. To its credit Death did in fact get ahold of Titanshadow and his fate was sealed as soon as that happened but god damn, did that headshot feel good. But yea twelve or so seconds of fighting. Death started eating the body so I went around looking for all the cards and my dagger while Yam did something or other and Harpp and Ren dealt with whatever they were dealing with. So I got the Emperor, Sun, and the half of the Tower card that started this whole mess. Also my dagger. The dagger was the part I was happiest about and I treated it like a lost and confused progeny that no longer needed to worry because daddy was here and he would make it all better.

And thus ends this final - or maybe penultimate we'll see - entry into mess. As of the moment of this being written I am in possession of two and a half cards, and my dagger once more. Titanshadow is dead, his army is under my control and presently being disintegrated based on a combination of the individual's wishes and good sense. Also I'm turning Grothmar into a big marble tower overlooking a lush green plain because that's better than looking at Grothmar all the damn time. Current prognosis unfortunately is not that good. Titanshadow may be dead, but the realm's inhabitants seem to be learning towards the disollution of the realm and attempting to fix and stabilize the realm would involve walking in Dhergos's footsteps, i.e. binding people to cards and doing some truly wild shit that probably won't end well. Which I guess is a shame, because there's probably a lot to explore now that I'm not hell bent on stopping an in progress calamity.

[^fn-mole]: I still don't know exactly how we found out but if I remember right he attacked someone and then complained about something needing to come out of his brain.
[^fn-titanshadow]: Once again I have to applaud the fact that Titanshadow refused to handle any of his problems himself. If he was at the factory we would have been fucked.
[^fn-jugular]: As much as tactical and strategic thought are good, nothing beats kicking down the door to someone's house and laying waste to everything around you. 
[^fn-magic]: It's been a constant theme over the years - even more prevalent in the Tarot realm - where there are "restraints" on your magic. I say restraints loosely because most of those restraints boil down to "Well you *can* cast a spell if you want to risk your arm exploding and also the spell fails and you just stand there like a fucking idiot for a while."
[^fn-cannons]: To give more context to that, Grothmar has some pretty strong walls I'll grant it that. But at one point or another, cannons and other artillery pieces are just too strong and too accurate for fortifications like Grothmar to be viable. The walls are going to come down.
[^fn-me]: Kick-ass Asura hero sporting a rifle, revolver with bloodstone bullets, anti-magic sword, a dagger make of pure bloodstone, and a shield that's also made of bloodstone. A very anti-magical setup which everyone whinges about because I guess killing people with bloodstone is just so much worse than killing them any other way.
[^fn-harpp]: Asura druid warmaster treehugger from the Vigil that I respect in all matters I don't care about.
[^fn-yam]: Human Mesmer from somewhere or other that, for a human, has a functional brain.
[^fn-ren]: Flame... Shaman? She's a Charr and she uses fire a lot and also ritual stuff I can't give a good description.
[^fn-death]: The Death Tarot card. A card that's essentially a collection of brambles that will latch on to people and eat them for their magic, but if it isn't constantly fed magic it withers and dies. Somehow both incredibly useless and wildly dangerous at the same time.
[^fn-mindcontrol]: Mind control. However you want to dress it up the card's basically good at mind control.