---
layout: post
title: Fixed
adventure_set: The Tarot
adventure_number: 8
post_number: 11
---


So a while ago in "Rant" I talked about a krewe that worked in mapping exploring and generally messing about with the Mists. It was the one that took my stupid suggestions as orders because fuck me I guess they don't have brains unless they tell them to. Half of them got overrun by crystals and then I started the long process of trying to unfuck that situation before the whole Titanshadow situation turned sideways and my attention was pulled away from saving the researchers to trying to stop the Giant Gold Shit from taking over the whole Tarot realm. The surviving researchers in my stead started working on solutions, and for a long time I didn't hear anything. All things considered after a few months of not hearing anything I decided that they were a lost cause and resigned myself to having caused the death of some number of Mists researchers because of my stupid ideas.

By reading this you can probably gather that this didn't happen. I got a few messages a few months ago detailing that the crystals that had previously overrun the entirety of the lab had been disposed of with a combination of necromancer magic and good old fashioned mining equipment. A number of the researchers had already been saved, but those that had been were catatonic while others were still trapped in the crystals. The running theories among the living researchers were awfully complicated so I'll give you the summary.

The crystals covering the mine and that had invaded the lab are a hive mind being controlled by a central intelligence that exists within the mine[^fn-mine]. By opening the portal inside the bottom of the mine we allowed the crystal hive mind to surge forward and begin consuming the life force of everything. Yes, life consuming crystals. Apparently their method of operation was to hook into living creatures and slowly drain them of life to grow more crystals and continue the chain. Apparently by constantly feeding the trapped researchers a bunch of life magic the researchers were kept alive and the crystals continued eating them. Thus was the horrifying process as to how the researchers were kept alive these past few months, and now I was being called in to fix this. The cycle would continue until the central intelligence governing the crystals was dealt with. Also when the crystals latch onto someone they steal your conciousness. So yea. That's not good.

I had never killed a hive intelligence singlehandedly before so hooray for new experiences. But given the way these crystals seem to just not give a *fuck*[^fn-resistant] I was kind of at a loss for options on how to deal with them. Thankfully the manner in which the lab was reclaimed and the researchers physically freed was something that could be replicated by copius amounts of necromancer magic that gave the crystals the impression that everything around them was dead. And apparently being averse to such things, the crystals retreat or otherwise go dormant and can then be destroyed. So the plan the researchers had was to give me a backpack machine thing that gave off a field of necrotic stuff[^fn-backpack] and then I go in to destroy the central intelligence. I wasn't a necromancer, so I was assumed that killing it was a matter of hitting it hard enough which I could probably accomplish with a mix of earth magic and shooting it. Given I was and still am used to the braindead plans that Calypso generally cooked up, this was a startling level of competence.

Either way the portal was opened, the crystals tried to invade again but were kept at bay by necromancer shit, and I walked into a massive cavern[^fn-archway]. The walls were covered in crystals, the floor was covered in crystals, the ceiling was covered in crystals. It was crystals all the way down, so many crystals that crystals doesn't feel like a real word anymore. Towards the middle of this deep cavern was a gargantuan mound of glittering you guessed it, crystals. It honestly looked rather beautiful if you didn't consider its nature as a "eat everything and then die" kind of thing. Atop the crystal mound, was a massive wyvern with crystals sprouting out from it. Much of its flesh was missing, and only the skeletal remains of his body and its wings signified what it was, beyond the large saddle strapped to it that was impressively ornate and steeped in magic itself. this wyvern was clearly prized mount before it had been killed. A fifteen foot long spear of a pale metal pierced the wyvern's side completely through. The crystals very obviously sprouted from the spear itself, but they had become so intertwined with the beast that they were practically the same object by this point. I made my approach carefully, slowly. Observing every detail, preparing for an attack that could come from anywhere.

And then as I came within five feet of the beast, it spoke. Okay the beast didn't speak, the crystals spoke[^fn-spoke]. And not just one crystal, the voice kind of came from everywhere. I assumed that the necrotic... Whatever from that backpack would essentially make me invisible, but I guess it was more of a ward than stealth. The crystals asked me who I was and I answered. A brief conversation ensued in which I demanded that the minds and bodies of the crystal-trapped researchers be released. Thankfully the crystal mass wasn't a complete asshole with no regard for anything but itself and the conversation actually yielded some useful information. Firstly, the crystals were indeed some sort of hive mind. The whisper came in waves from some central point and spread through the crystal mass, and this central point happened to be coming from within the dead wyvern itself. The crystals also feed on life. Which I guess wasn't that much of a startling discovery to be honest but the crystals confirming that this wasn't some malicious "I eat you because I'm evil" kind of thing gave me some hope that I wasn't going to have to fight it and I could perhaps negotiate.

So since the crystals needed to survive and I wanted the researchers to survive I had to somehow give it an offer that would be more enticing than some researchers. Not that I knew what the hell to offer it though. Not like I have life just laying around ready for me to grab it and toss it at a whack ass crystal monster thing.

As we kept talking the crystals asked me if I was going to carry them out of this place and use them. Things started to fall in place after that. For the last however long the crystals have been barely subsisting on the remains of that wyvern the spear was stabbed into. Its purpose was to fight, to kill, and then to feed. It had been doing so ever since its creation and the amount of fighting and killing it has done is probably orders of magnitude higher than anything I've ever seen, or anyone else on Tyria has ever seen. And now it's trapped here. Unable to escape the mines, unable to feed. On one handle I felt bad for it because it's trapped here. On the other hand, if this thing got loose it would destroy everything it touched. And now this thing is asking me of all people to wield it. Part of me really, really, really wanted to. Could you fucking imagine something like that? Big ass crystal horde that tears everything it touches the fuck apart? That would be cool as hell. But that wasn't really something I wanted to be responsible for either and neither could I probably control it when the time came[^fn-dhergos]. We were too different, I think. The crystals wanted to fight and feed. It fought because its purpose is to fight, and I fight because if I don't then bad things happen. At the very least, the crystals understood that much. It was confused[^fn-confused] as to why I didn't like to fight, but it said that fighting to protect other people was something it understood, and "To die in service to such good is rare." You might think that was a precursor to this thing trying to kill me, but apparently not because it then asked if I was going to leave it there.

I felt an obligation to at least attempt to free this thing. Not strictly because it deserved freedom, it was a weapon that's probably killed thousands of things and ate them all. But number one I doubt I could fight this thing and win without getting myself killed, and two if the crystals died rather than relinquish control over the trapped researchers I might never get them back. I had to think of a solution quickly though, and that came to me once I remembered that my mists dagger can tear open rifts into other Mists realms. All I had to do was think about where to go. Gets the crystals out of the cave, gets the researchers back, and we're all good. Right?

As a matter of fucking fact, that's exactly what happened[^fn-rare]. The crystal mass condensed itself into a single pile of crystals that absolutely hummed with magical potential. The beast it had been feeding on was stripped completely bare of what little flesh remained, and before me in the rib cage of the creature was the source of this whole problem. I felt like I could have taken my hammer to it and probably killed good and quick, but that was a risk not worth taking when I was so close to victory without having to fire a shot. So I thought about a Mists realm where there was only fighting, all the time, forever. I opened a rift into the thought of Mists realm, grabbed the crystal, and at once I felt like I was carrying a star in my hand. Then I tossed it through the rift, closed it, and that was it. Job done.

Then came the matter of the spear. It was dormant, but oh my god a fifteen foot or so long spear? Holy shit, I was absolutely taking that. It wasn't easy, but when all was said and done I was carrying a massive ass spear back through the portal the researchers had kept open. And to my relief, the researchers were freed, alived, and well. That more or less ends this section, though if you're interested in some of the conversation I had I have some extra notes here. If you don't care, then just skip it and you won't miss anything important.

The crystal was made by some absolute fucking lunatic of a wizard enchanter person[^fn-enchanter] who designed this as a superweapon to be wielded by some equally fucking crazy champion that went around to different Mists realms and tore shit the fuck up. All life was consumed, all else was destroyed, and then this champion asshole went onto the next one like it was no big deal. The crystal was called "The Inevitable Winter" by a few people but it never really had a name. I personally call it "Everwinter" because that sounds cool to me and if you don't like it I invite you to track this thing down and rename it. Anyway the champion and Everwinter had a jolly good old time being absolute pricks to the rest of the universe until apparently the champion had a change of heart and saw Everwinter as a monster. So he brought it into the deepest pit he could find, and left it here. Also the wyvern was the champion's. The wyvern's name was a bunch of noises you would hear off of a windchime. Yes, the champion brought the wyvern down into the pit too, stabbed the spear varrying Everwinter into the heart of the wyvern, and left it here. So yea. That was a thing. Got a big spear though. Seems like Deldrimor steel but it's enchanted with cold magic or whatever so that's neat.


[^fn-mine]: Mists realm. Weird stuff.
[^fn-resistant]: The crystals were super fucking resistant to physical damage.
[^fn-backpack]: I feel like I should have more information about how this all worked but I don't have the expertise to explain it.
[^fn-archway]: The crystals grew into a very beautiful archway surrounding the portal. It was kind of nice, but horrifying.
[^fn-spoke]: Imagine an absolute ton of whispers all saying the same thing in a rolling pattern and that's what it's like.
[^fn-dhergos]: See Dhergos, the creator of the Tarot realm (Tarot adventure) for what happens when you think you can control something arguably more powerful than you.
[^fn-confused]: The actual spoken words were: "You avoid battle? Have you lost your teeth? Your sense for blood? Battlefields always exist, there is no running from them. You fight, and you kill, and that is your duty. So it goes that we all live in service of the grand machine." I'm not sure if 'grand machine' is just a metaphor for how the universe works or a reference to some specific entity.
[^fn-rare]: Which is pretty rare by my standards; Winning without something having to die.
[^fn-enchanter]: Knight-enchanter, by the words of the crystal. Definitely a lunatic.