---
layout: post
title: Goodbye
adventure_set: The Tarot
adventure_number: 8
post_number: 12
---


So this section will be more of a wrapup than an explanation of an adventure. As it stood in the realm after the death of Titanshadow, I held domain over the one half of the Tower card that I found in the very beginning. I also had the Sun and Emperor cards which meant I had some measure of control over all the cards that the Sun held dominion over. The Sun realm was also mine, as fucked up and dying as it was. The Charr army that Titanshadow was fucking with was in my complete control too[^fn-charr].

In the immediate aftermath I turned the Tower into a nice marble tower. And therein I found the Hermit card whose body had been "culled" by Titanshadow's personnel on their search to collect the cards[^fn-collect]. I reformed his body but his spirit was very much gone so he was comatose and useless. I put him on a blanket and then started working on the Charr army. The Charr were mostly a bunch of spirits captured, hunted down, and somehow or someway pressganged or persuaded to join him. A lot of them were assholes and I don't miss them but there were a number that were more prisoners than willing participants that just wanted to fade into oblivion. I felt some measure of obligation to see even the shit ones to some form of afterlife instead of letting just sit around and do nothing here, so over the course of the next few weeks I released them from their bounds and sent them to wherever they wanted to go, whether that was just somewhere random in the Mists, an afterlife, or just oblivion to unmake them entirely.

After that was sorted I started working on the rest of the inhabitants in this magical shithole. There were a number of Charr that had undergone the same process that left the Jotun in their ruined state, some kind of quasi-ascension that bound their souls to the realm. That meant I couldn't send them away and they were stuck here like everyone else[^fn-stuck]. Those Charr in that fucked up state were gathered up by the High Priestess and while I didn't trust her because why in the god damn would I trust a card, she didn't make any overt attempts at fucking with any of my shit so I just let her do her thing. But fixing this shit was way outside the realm of my expertise because I needed to somehow de-ascend these people, unfuck the cards, round them all together and somehow open up the realm so they could all leave.

Turns out that I couldn't really do any of this, but the process to getting to that realization was pretty involved. First, the Moon, the Sun, and the Stars are heavily involved in the ascension process that Dhergos was attempting. We had the Sun and the Moon, but the Stars were noticably missing so that was step one to repairing the damage done to this place. As far as I could tell Dhergos destroyed them when he was trying to destroy this place. The Stars were really sad about being trapped in the realm away from its home and while people could sing to it to calm it, it was having a really bad time so I imagine being torn to pieces and tossed away made that bad time even worse. Anyway, I needed to find the remains of the Star (Singular. There was only ever one star but I'll say Star or Stars interchangeably and you can't stop me from doing that.) and somehow put them back together. As it happens, I was eventually able to locate and extricate the pieces from that massive blood lake in the center of the realm. The pieces bled a lot but eventually with the Tower's help I got the pieces of the Stars (the card) and the Star (the star) together again. It wasn't pleasant putting this thing back together but I got it done. And now that the Stars were back in order and under my control I was able to bring the Hermit's spirit back to his body. The Star spent its time crying and eventually I got people to sing to it so it would be less of a pain in the ass[^fn-star].

So the Hermit then told me that there's a way to fix all of this and all I need to do was get all the other cards together and put them in a super secret door that was deep in the mountains and over an ocean of stars. Okay so it wasn't a door, it was an iron gate built into a stone wall that has insets for all of the cards minus the Fool card. That solved one problem, opening a door for everyone to leave. Unfortunately this didn't solve the problem of all the quasi-ascended spirits and cards being chained to the realm. The door would open and no one could go through it. The Hermit thankfully had some insight on that too. The Hermit, the Hierophant, the Sun, Moon, Stars, and the Tower cards were how the ascension process was supposed to work. The problem was that, in the very beginning of this whole mess the Tower card I possessed was actually only half a card. The other half of the card was with the Hierophant, who was locked away by Dhergos for reasons I don't quite remember. So I could knock out three birds with one stone. I needed the half of the card that the Hierophant held, the Hierophant needed to be freed, and Judas's debt to the High Priestess would be paid and he would be freed. Thankfully getting the Hierophant out was easy. The wards put in place to keep him bound were simple enough to dismantle and in an hour I had everything I needed to de-ascend all of the spirits so they could go. The cards could do the same by relinquishing themselves to me so I could put the cards into the insets on that gate to open it up and let them all through.

And that's more or less where this all ends. The spirits and cards were freed, the realm broke down without the magic sustaining it once the gate was open and everything fell apart. But because I'm a betting man, I was pretty sure the big iron gate was also the entrance to Dhergos's tomb so I decided to bring everyone in Calypso along for some good old fashioned gravedigging. In fact I was right, Dhergos's tomb was right where I thought it would be and I was then sorely disappointed to learn that all of Dhergos's magical items and what else have you were not with him. It was just a body, a sarcophagus, and some scrawlings in Jotun that essentially said he was sorry and this was all his fault. Dhergos's body was actually very well preserved so I briefly toyed with the idea of ressurecting him but eventually it was decided to get just let him stay dead. He did however, have the Fool card on him which I think was a bit poetic. He gets super powerful off of random chance, tries to make everything better and in his hubris and madness makes everything worse. Then when he realizes that everything is worse, he can't fix it so he runs and dies alone and miserable in a cave[^fn-parralel].

As for me, the cards no longer have any magic bound to them but I kept them anyway, Fool card included. Maybe because they were just kind of cool and old and they would make good conversation pieces, or a reminder when I'm old that I can look back on this and say I did something worthwhile. Maybe I just need to remind myself every now and then that if I'm not careful I could turn out like him. I don't know. They're mine now, and that's all I really have left of the whole mess except for one other thing. I did make several attempts to try and contact Astris, one of the Jotun spirits I had built something of a friendship with over the course of that whole affair. I was never able to though, and it gnawed on me endlessly when I realized I couldn't make sure she was safe. Eventually though, LATM[^fn-latm], whom I thought was disintegrated along with everything else in that realm, would appear in Fort Fitzen one day carrying a letter for me. LATM itself was miniaturized, so I guess I also have a spectral star mouse in my home now. Which I think is actually very nice and I love him very much. I'll just leave the text of the letter here for you to read.


Fitzen,

I do not know what to put in this letter, other than thank you. Thank you and your friends for helping us. What you have done—there is no amount of words in the world that can communicate my gratitude.

I cannot tell you where we are exactly, but we dance amongst the stars now. It’s good being free, being able to wander and to watch the worlds pass by, see what happens in all other places. I can go where I please now, and enjoy my time and being myself. Such a simple joy I thought I would never experience again.

\- Lady Astris


I don't think I've ever received a letter like that before, but I think I'm going to keep that one for the rest of my life. As for now, that ends this chapter. At the moment I consider myself retired and I've taken a desk job at Calypso so I'm not thrown into situations like this anymore. I'm not sure how long that's going to last though. If it does, I think this will be the last chapter I ever write. If it doesn't, I guess there's still more to put here. Just in case though, I'm going to title this one as "Goodbye". And while I'm here, I'm going to reiterate that this was only ever for me and any enjoyment you find out of this was entirely coincidental. I'm not sure how to end this one. I feel like there should be some heartfelt goodbye where I say be safe, eat your vitamins or something. But you're not getting that though, all you're getting is an incomplete goodb

[^fn-charr]: Some two hundred of them.
[^fn-collect]: Titanshadow's minions had a rather exensive dossier that detailed cards and what they did.
[^fn-stuck]: Meaning the Jotun spirits and the cards.
[^fn-star]: Didn't even like that hat and blanket I made for it. Ungrateful.
[^fn-parralel]: Same kind of things I found on the scrawlings beneath Rata Sum that one time.
[^fn-latm]: Light Aerial Transportation Mouse. Although it could never fly around and now because it's actually mouse sized, it's more like Light Mouse. I'm keeping LATM though, I like that name.