---
layout: post
title: Well that lasted long
adventure_set: Vicotis
adventure_number: 9
post_number: 1
---

Yea well that didn't last long. I don't remember how long ago I wrote down the last entry in that Tarot stuff but it couldn't have been that long and we're right back here again. I would ask if you missed me but we should all understand by now I don't care and this is just for me. I've been considering writing this down for a while now and finally decided to once I had some time on my hands. It's not a good one, so if you like happy endings maybe get a picture book instead.

Alright, so a while ago I learned that apparently the centaur banded together again or something and then took a big nasty stick to the top of Claypool's head and put it under siege. While typically I don't try to involve myself in these kinds of affairs because most of my time is spent on potentially world-ending problems, I didn't really have anything that was taking up my time so I decided to go see the local fauna and what they were up to. As you can probably guess I was very unimpressed by my compatriots and their fantastical delusions that they would ensure peace with the centaur by just asking them to "please don't". This is not how it works and I'm going to lay this out here.

The centaur are a group of tribes. Power is not granted by any institution or document or will of the people or anything like that, the people there do not live under a long standing and well developed government. The centaur are governed by strength and ties of personal loyalties. For a centaur and his tribe or subunit within his tribe, he rules because he has the respect and/or fear to keep him there. Once that's lost, the knives start coming out[^fn-knives]. If a particular centaur can point enough knives at other tribes he subjugates them. This is how it has always worked, and it is not going to change. You don't make treaties with the centaur, at most you make treaties with tribes. More often than that, you make treaties with the people leading those tribes. Their successors will more often than not see no obligation to honor any previous agreements unless they personally want to. So looking a bit in the future, this is a ceasefire for five years and once some other asshole decides he wants to take another shot I'll be writing a chapter an awful lot like this one.

Alright so enough of my own half baked philosophical whinging. There was once upon a time a group of fucked up elementalist centaur assholes that all banded together and combined their strength to make a magical network so they could all wield earth magic like they were all one person. It's confusing but imagine it like one person being able to call upon the power of like, twenty other people to put out some "Oh shit" tier magic. Yea, kind of a problem. Also they killed a *lot* of humans to make this happen. Like, a small town's worth of humans. Shit was fucked. The leader of these people was a person by the name of Vicotis. This group of earth magic users[^fn-cult] did their thing or whatever and eventually a guy called Mergreth the Menacing[^fn-mergreth] did that thing where he subjugated a bunch of centaur, either with beatdowns or promises of victory or whatever and the Earthraisers fell under his command. Instead of turning this newfound power to cultivating the land they lived on he decided that even though the last 5000 attempts to kick the humans off of his ancestral land failed, attempt 5001 will absolutely work. So Claypool got caught unawares, the city/town/whatever was surrounded and everyone panicked. Every bleeding heart from here to Elona crawled out of their floating government subsidized ivory-and-gold-and-platinum-and-silver-and-lapis-lazuli towers to tell everyone that the way forward was to bring them all over to our side with love and honor. Also one of the centaurs by the name of Vicotis surrendered and hid in a cave before the fighting got serious. Ostensibly he did this because he was tired of war but my own opinion is that he saw the writing on the wall that attempt 5001 maybe won't make it and decided to maybe sit this one out.

The Seraph tried to fix this shit themselves and get turned into a fine paste so while Claypool is surrounded and starving because they didn't expect a siege, a bunch of volunteers like myself group together, reinforce the Seraph, and go charging in to save the day. The person leading the Seraph at the time was a sergeant by the name of Victoria Sloane. Good soldier, kind of an asshole, didn't make a lot of friends so she's a lot like me. Anyway we rush down, engage a shit ton of earth elementals that the centaur had summoned when the siege started, and got to the gate where this blind centaur with two ravens or something whinged about something I didn't care to listen to. The sergeant, in the middle of this charge, tripped a trap that caused an earth elemental[^fn-hand] to grab her and start crushing the fuck out of her. Losing a valuable leader of the Seraph and by extension the volunteer corp was definitely bad so I killed the element as fast as possible by destroying runes critical to its operation. Also she was screaming pretty loud and I wanted that to stop. I've never liked listening to people die and when they're vocal about said dying it's particularly jarring. You may be asking where everyone else was during this, and they were talking with the raven centaur guy. Yes, these things were both happening right next to each other. The centaur and our resident fuckups were engaging in "Just give peace a chance" while the sergeant was being crushed to death right in front of them. I decided then and there that I hated these people.

Anyway the bird dude went to our side and Claypool was saved. Then a few days later a BLOAM[^fn-bloam] came and fucked us all up. Practically no contest, we damaged it a little and while we had no severe casualties on our side we were categorically outclassed. Vicotis, the aforementioned leader of the Earthraisers who probably had extensive knowledge of all earth elementals being used against us did jack shit. I imagine he was sipping champagne out of the bottle while this was going on and just couldn't be bothered to help the people sheltering him against the centaur who would definitely kill his ass for being a traitor if they got their hands on him. Whatever. A few days later the BLOAM came back and fucked us up again, but this time it had friends. A bunch of smaller elementals swarmed the walls of Claypool and in attendance was one of the Earthraisers with a few guards with him. I found out where the Earthraiser was, teleported with some air magic, and broke open the back of his skull with my sword[^fn-skull]. I then turned on the two guards to kill them, but a human also went there and pleaded with them to surrender. I didn't want to even give the opportunity but I guess I'm just a nice guy because I deferred to him and gave the centaur a chance to surrender. This would have potentially gotten me killed if someone in the far back didn't kill one centaur who was taking the opportunity to try and stab me. The other surrendered.

Anyway the death of the Earthraiser caused the little elementals to die in their droves but then the BLOAM came and fucked us up and also captured some people. Then we went to save them which worked out well enough[^fn-rescue] and the centaur just sort of collapsed after that. I like to think my sermon[^fn-sermon] had something to do with it but I doubt they would appreciate fine architecture. The entire time a bunch of centaur were joining our side against Mergreth and I don't really care about them so I won't bother to name them. I also hesitate to say they were on our side. The centaur hate the humans for sure and there is absolutely no love between the two. But their loyalty to Mergreth was build on shaky foundations like I said above so once they got it in their head that Mergreth wasn't winning they abandoned him and joined the winning side. 

Lo and behold eventually all the centaur that were previously on Mergreth's side had abandoned him. We made the brilliant decision of deciding to negotiate with Mergreth himself after he was all alone. Negotiations, were, as you can imagine, short. We gathered at Fort Salma in the plains of northern Kessex near the passes that led to Claypool. Mergreth arrived from the east. Everyone just stood around and looked at each other until I said something, and then our resident bleeders of the heart variety went over with Vicotis at their front to tell him to abandon his dreams and everything else and go live in a cottage somewhere. It's at this point that I joined Mergreth's side, because what the hell is that? All of his friends and family abandoned him for the enemy that's fought his people for generations and they just want him to give up and live in peace? Might as well tell him to castrate himself too. Which I did in fact verbalize, which was not taken well.

Anyway Mergreth probably came there to die and that is exactly what he did. Now, before I get to that, let's go over one thing. Vicotis had over the entirey of his stay in our camp, withheld vital information about the nature of what made the Earthraisers able to do their thing. The network connecting all of them was held together by a magical item[^fn-stone] created by Vicotis and that seems to be why the Earthraisers killed all of those humans. For that item. Nobody really cared about being lied to so what the fuck ever - but he saved the absolute worst for last so don't think he's in the clear yet.

Alright back to Mergreth. He used the magic earth item to try and kill Vicotis but our sergeant, like a good soldier, threw herself in the way and was skewered by some stone spears. Everyone else and their mother descended upon Mergreth to kill him while I went to Victoria and tried to heal her with some water magic. Which backfired, because these stone spears react to magic poorly and it only hurt her worse. I then tried to teleport her away from the fighting and over to some medics, but they were useless for this kind of catastrophic injury and she died not very long after. One of the humans - a minister I think - did in fact get the magic earth item and tried to use it to save Victoria, but it didn't work either. And that was... Sort of it. The entire affair had more or less ended right there with Mergreth's death. The war had ended, and peace - if you can even call it that - had returned. Which would be an okay place to end this. Vicotis, the lying piece of shit that he is, could lead the centaur into this peace and Sloane died a hero's death defending that peace. At least that's how it officially goes.

And then five minutes after the fighting ended Vicotis offhandedly remarked that he's the reason Victoria's entire family is dead.

If we did not attempt to engage Mergreth in diplomacy there is a good chance that Victoria would be alive. The butchers and murderers that have spent their entire lives attempting to kill as many humans as possible have suddenly gotten old and tired and want nothing more than for everyone to forgive and forget. Until the peace no longer suits them, and they go right back to it while everyone else calls endlessly for peace at any cost. This is no peace. This is not justice. This is madness. Victoria did not die a hero's death for this peace, she died a victim's death over this peace. She was murdered by this peace. And from here to when her name is forgotten, she'll be remembered for all of the wrong reasons. I suppose in some way I'm to blame for this too, being unable to save her and just letting the events proceed as they did.

And a few weeks after a warrant for Vicotis's arrest has been put out because of his various crimes against Kryta.

[^fn-knives]: The same is also technically true for all other governments but barring the Charr the knives tend to be metaphorical and within some sort of legal framework that is more complex than bigger stick.
[^fn-cult]: Hereafter called the Earthraisers because that's what they called themselves.
[^fn-mergreth]: Wonder how he got that name. Baking sales, perhaps?
[^fn-hand]: This particular earth elemental was a stone hand. The damn things are very hard to kill unless you can get at the runes that bind them. Which, as it happens, aren't easy to get to when the hand wants to kill you.
[^fn-bloam]: Big Obsidian And Lava Monster. Just like. A thing. Made of obsidian and lava. Very tough. Very angry.
[^fn-skull]: Only person in the entire campaign to get a kill on one of them. Pretty clean too, classic teleport-and-slash the back of his head, dead before he hit the ground.
[^fn-rescue]: Apparently there was some controversy because the rescue team fucked up and started a fight amongst themselves over a necromancer using centaur corpses to fight living centaur. Yes, the rescue team got into a fight over this. No, I don't know how and no I was not there when it happened. If I was you can bet I would be screaming at the top of my lungs that we have bigger problems.
[^fn-sermon]: I was tasked with providing a distraction because these bleeding heart assholes were all about avoiding centaur casualties yet again over some stupid delusion that killing more centaur than absolutely necessary is a bad thing. You might think this sounds like I'm the unhinged but I don't recall every suggesting that war was ever reasonable in the first place. Anyway I decided the best way to distract the centaur was to preach from a treatise about architecture through a few voice projection systems.
[^fn-stone]: Named the Heart Stone. I'll just refer to it as magic earth item or some variation thereof. The ritual to destroy the network connecting all the Earthraisers was to speak each of the names of the people connected to the network, and then destroy the stone with a blade that had never touched centaur blood.