---
layout: post
title: Of course it's a trap
adventure_set: Kalkhas
adventure_number: 10
post_number: 1
---

I swear if I ever bite it this planet is going to fold in on itself like a wet paper towel.

So back before I got removed from Calypso for the second time[^fn-fired] I wound up going to a birthday party for a coworker's son and stumbled onto the absolutely cursed knowledge that a good chunk of the stars that we see in the night sky are not actually stars, and are instead these things called Starers looking at us. As far as I could glean, Starers are essentially demons? I have very little understanding of who they are and how they operate, but I do know that they are invisible unless you have special equipment which I don't have access to, and they are so far removed from Tyria that those that exist on Tyria are incapable of being interacted with, at least by anything I threw at them. This includes magic and swords and things, even null fields.

But that's not really what this section will be about. The above is tangentially related information that I feel like I should note down but I currently just don't see how this all intersects. So a few decades or so ago a group of 5 people called wizards[^fn-wizards] stood opposed against demons from the Mists. But given I'm writing about this you can be sure that they fucked up, and the manner of their fucking up was making a deal with a super powerful demon called Kalkhas who is a demon that eats knowledge or something[^fn-knowledge]. Great. The leader of these wiznerds named Algernon[^fn-wiznames] handed over essentially all of the group's knowledge to Kalkhas in exchange for effectively erasing the proof of their existence. No fucking clue why they wanted that done, but it meant that anything written about them was suddenly gone, no one remembered them, et cetera. Poof. But lo, and so it was, that the demon double crossed them[^fn-surprise] and it turns out that demons were put inside the five wizards and they were eating their organs and stuff. I don't know how they didn't know this was happening but presumably the memory eating had something to do with it. This was pretty much a death sentence but the guy that figured all of this out, a wiznerd by the name of  ̷̢̧͚̳̲̰̜̃͛̆̋ ̶͍͓̭̳͖̹̟̫̠̓̑̉̓̑̚̕ ̸̤͕̯̻̳͉͙̗͒ͅ ̵̻̖̞̝͒́̕͜ ̴̱̋͊́̊͆̕̚͝͝ [^fn-name] got wind of this bullshit and decided it was a good idea to get him and his apprentice out of there. Kalkhas has been after them ever since.

Enter, Hatman. My suspicion is that Hatman was one of the other four wizards that got caught up in this whole mess, but given that his name no longer exists and I never found any information about him I can only guess as to who he was and what he did. He was a man though, so my best guess is that he was Virgil if he is even one of the original wizards. After writing Larry's bad name down an absurd amount of times[^fn-spam] Hatman reached out to me and fed me some lies about how Larry is a super evil demon eater that seeks to take over the planet by eating demons and taking their powers for himself. I'm proud to say that while this was the only real information available at this point I took everything he said with a grain of salt and didn't particularly trust him either. After this meeting the trail goes cold for a while, and I move onto other things like Vicotis and that whole debacle. But one fine winter day not very long ago I received a psychic blast that was essentially a "Please Fitzen come save me Larry stabbed me and I ran I NEED HELP" call. Then a portal opened. Firstly I tested whether the portal would blender anything that entered it, and then after assuring my own safety I walked through with my usual set of weapons. Sword, revolver, rifle.

Thereupon I entered an underground chamber deep in the Maguuma. Hatman was to my east on the far wall, barely visible with a tiny light in front of him. The rest of the cavern was dark but held some of that Exalted architecture, though long abandoned. I showed up in the center of a big circle surrounded by I think 7 pylons. Generally speaking when you find yourself surrounded by somewhat ominous architecture that's not a good thing, so suspicions were aroused and I assumed a trap. I pulled out my magic flashlight[^fn-flashlight] and then made an observation that there were thin strands of magic all about the circle like a three dimensional spider's web. Above the circle was a currently dormant portal - and note that this was not the portal I entered in from. Yea no, this was absolutely a fucking trap. At that same time, two of my once coworkers - Judas and Yam - walked into the chamber from the wider cave to the west. Apparently they had tracked Hatman to this same place, and were unaware of my presence until they saw me pointing a gun at them. These are coworkers I actually liked though, so I decided to tell them of the spider web thing, and extricated myself very slowly from the trap until I was on the periphery of the chamber. Both Judas and Yam then appeared next to me via portal.

Hatman approached me, I swung about and brought up my rifle to face him, and told him to back off and go sit down. Remember, even though we're technically allies this whole thing was setting off a whole deluge of alarm bells in my head and I didn't even really trust him to start out with. And as it happens, those fears were well founded because after a very brief conversation that just dripped with hostility he contorted into what I can only describe as a human centipede and rushed me. He knocked me down and got on top of me, but Yam teleported me away - though my rifle was ripped from my hands by Hatman in the process - and engaged the now clearly demon-infested Hatman. Once I got my bearings I got pissed and joined in the violence. Hatman, in the time that this teleportation was transpiring, had grabbed Judas and shoved him into the magic strands in the big circle. The spider's web had its first victim. Also Hatman threw my rifle in there too. Prick. Fortunately he did not live long enough to enjoy his apparent success because a quick succession of strikes from myself and Yam obliterated him. Lightning and chaos magic do not fuck around. Yam then for some godforsaken reason teleported into the circle with Judas in an attempt to save him, and both of them were essentially ensnared in the trap. They were tangled up in the strands which, when cut, merely split into more and more strands.

And the portal yawned open. Down reached a hand. An absolutely gargantuan hand capable of grabbing two adult human males as if they were candies. Pale grey flesh with accents of a deep crimson red. Six fingers too. At the same time, the most horrid noise spilled from the portal - screams by the thousands. Of agony, of sadness. It was deafening and it fucking sucked. It was like someone chose the perfect noise to drive up that fear response, and then cranked up the volume before disabling the entire volume control.

Remember how I said that demons had infested the wizards? Well in the brief time where we were fighting Hatman the wounds on him revealed something of a pale grey and deep crimson red squirming underneath his flesh. I suspected something was up but didn't put it together until the remains of Hatman gave birth to some... *thing*. About the height of a human man, horned and spined with several fucked up limbs, no eyes. I'm still unsure what to make of the damn thing, but it was unlike anything I'd ever seen before and at first I didn't even know if I was going to be able to actually damage it. The good news was that yes indeed it could be hurt, and the next minute following this thing's dramatic entrance where it burst from Hatman's remains was spent experiencing deep regret over picking a fight with me. The hand spoke to the demon thing I was fighting and called it "Clymenus"[^fn-clymenus], saying it offered such beautiful tribute. Tribute in this case probably meant Yam and Judas.

Anyway Cletus grabbed me, but I grabbed him back and as it turns out he had a harder time ripping apart stone than stone did doing the same to him. Once I let go of the half of his head still connected to his body, he tried crawling back into the pylon circle. I turned my focus to the more immediate threat which was the giant ass talking hand so I was content to just let Cletus squirm and bleed out on the ground. Judas and Yam put their brains together around the same time and took a proverbial hammer[^fn-hammer] to the hand. Which I thought would be great and effective but the hand did not apparently give a fuck. The flesh split open, and oh did it scream. I heard people dying, though I could not pick out individuals in the earsplitting cacophony that erupted out of the wounds Judas and Yam inflicted. The worst part is that the voice coming from the hand sounded amused, not wounded. I felt like my heart was going to give it was beating so fast, but while I still had some breath in my lungs I just went to work. Judging by the size of the hand, whatever this thing was, it was enormous and we did not have the knowhow and firepower to combat it effectively. Closing the rift was the only viable option, and I surmised that the pylons were the key to it.

Fortunately both Yam and Judas, in attacking the hand, had also given them the chance to escape the circle and they moved beyond the pylons to where I was standing with a quick teleport. There was a brief interlude after this where the hand spoke to us, calling itself "Duke Kalkhas of House Lierkus[^fn-lierkus]". I just started beating the fuck out of the pylons, but Judas made the keen observation that the hand probably couldn't move beyond the circle of pylons which offered us some safety. A shame that he was absolutely fucking wrong though because the hand then immediately went beyond the pylons in search of Cletus, who by this point was dead. I took a swing at the hand as it passed by me, but even though it was a good fucking shot that cut pretty damn deep, it didn't seem to really bother him at all. The rapid destruction of several pylons then forced Kalkhas to retreat lest he lose his whole damn arm to a destabilizing portal. Two of Kalkhas's fingertips were lost entirely when the rift closed on them, and for a time they wailed and screamed and cried before the flesh mercifully fell silent. I spent the next few minutes holding my head and trying to pull myself together. This was by far one of the more emotionally taxing fights I had ever been apart of, purely because that damn screaming and fear response just did not stop for anything.

Calypso, however, would not doubt be along in force to secure the site, so I didn't have the time I would have liked to investigate everything around me. There was a wealth of knowledge to take from the corpses: the finger bits, the pylons, Hatman's remains, et cetera. But, in the end I settled on a few old books and scraps of paper that were where Hatman had been to start out - the eastern side of the chamber. From what I could tell this used to be a workshop that had fallen into some catastrophic disrepair and was probably unused for quite some time. But, through the books and everything else, I was able to glean information concerning Kalkhas,  ̴͓̙̺͚͓͉͈̥̃̂͑̉̒͊̚͝͝ ̵̼͉͊͆ ̵̙̺̓́́͝ ̴̩̎̋͗ ̵̖̬͔̼͑̎̐̍̂̒̊̕͝ͅ ̵̝̲͛̂̈́̚͠ ̷̧̛̻̞͔̤̪̈́̉̄͝ ̵̢̝̩̤͙͈̾̂̿̚͝, and the other wizards. Unfortunately I didn't learn all too much beyond that for now, but it's enough to get an idea of what I'm up against. Infovore demons. Definitely one of the stranger things I've taken on before, but I've already killed one. And if one can die, they all can. Just need to figure out what hurts them the most.


[^fn-fired]: This happening several months prior to the writing of this entry because I attacked Erebus.
[^fn-wizards]: Fucking stupid name. Wizards? Seriously?
[^fn-knowledge]: It's unclear what this currently means but it appears that eating people is their go-to method of getting knowledge.
[^fn-wiznames]: The others were Horatia, Virgil, Ovelia, and Sullivan
[^fn-surprise]: Wow. Who would have guessed?
[^fn-name]: A side effect of erasing this guy from everyone's mind is that writing his name doesn't work. So he's going to be Larry - or some other suitably insulting nickname - from now on. I suspect that the other names like Algernon are fake names, and writing their true ones down would have the same effect. How did I learn this guy's true name? I suspect I didn't, but Kalkhas is just pissed and erased this fake one too even though it didn't quite stick.
[^fn-spam]: Spamming message forums, writing it down for a couple hours a day, trying to get Gardenbot to do it (With casualties).
[^fn-flashlight]: Hisa had gifted me a flashlight that specifically shines on magic and makes it light up. It was billed as a sort of toy but it's actually extremely useful for discovering invisible things.
[^fn-clymenus]: Who I will exclusively refer to as Cletus because that's funny to me.
[^fn-hammer]: If I remember correctly Yam was amplifying a lightning based attack that Judas was making.
[^fn-lierkus]: Clearly referencing human noble houses, but I imagine their interpretation of this system has a few key differences than Kryta's. Still, the title of Duke and a reference to a house imply some sort of functional organized civilization among these monsters. To what extent this is true, or if it's just entirely a facade is as of yet unclear.