---
layout: post
title: Wrymslayer Extraordinaire
adventure_set: Kalkhas
adventure_number: 10
post_number: 2
---

So the Kalkhas stuff didn't quite go anywhere on my account for a while. No doubt Calypso was busy digging into how to fight Kalkhas the entire time but I'm going to make the assumption that it didn't really go anywhere. I was busy with other things, namely becoming embroiled in another one of Hisa's problems, this one being the revival of a proper son of a bitch by the name of Reyes and his plans to... Do something. Look, I'll be honest. Reyes had some plans, I never really bothered to learn much about his plans[^fn-plans] because I was a bit too busy trying to hunt him down and kill him. To summarize the course of affairs, Reyes is dead and now there's the Literal Concept Of Death[^fn-death] coming to kill Hisa and a bunch of other people or something like that. For lack of a better name said Literal Concept is being referred to as Extinction which sounds suitably ominous and dispassionate. Anyway, the way this intersects with Kalkhas is that while we were dealing with Extinction (Who at the time was locked up in a Mists realm), I thought of a brilliant idea. Firstly, a couple useful notes. One. Kalkhas is effectively an infovore, though rather than a "traditional" infovore that eats information, Kalkhas eats memories. At the time I wasn't particularly sure how to fight something like that, and in the same vein I wasn't really sure how to fight a walking concept so the idea came to me to pit the two against each other.

Sure, that plan was half baked from the beginning but I had a few hunches I was willing to bet my life on. One, Extinction and Kalkhas have no reason to be friends. Kalkhas is an stuck up demon that (probably) thinks he owns everything and is free to eat anything he wants, and how dare some necromancy weirdo take up residence in *his* realm? Two, I suspect Extinction barely has the sentience required to formulate even the most basic of plans and is purely motivated by a desire to kill things[^fn-kill]. If you put the two together in a room, I could virtually guarantee that one will try to kill the other within a minute of first contact.

Granted, there was one major problem with this idea. Kalkhas's realm and the realm in which Extinction is trapped in are in no way connected, and the dagger that would have made such a task simple is long gone. Thankfully Hisa has good knowledge on the topic and I let them handle it[^fn-hisa]. There was a long pause between then while Hisa worked a device that would open a portal between the two realms, and I spent the vast majority of that time just standing around waiting given I didn't have the domain knowledge to be of any use anyone. When the time came, the plan formed was simple enough. It was our best bet to not engage any of the demons that could be inhabiting the place, so stealth was paramount. Beyond that, we needed to place this device as far away from our entry as possible to stop Extinction from popping into the realm and then immediately following us back into ours. The stealth approach would also allow us a better chance of getting out of there without fighting on the way, so that's the approach we took. Enter the realm, put down the device some distance away, hope it activates quickly, and then get the hell out before Extinction turns its attention onto us. Simple enough, plenty of failure points, and my faith in getting out of there alive wasn't all that high to be honest. Given the stakes though, I was willing to take the risk.

Myself, Yam Solomon, and Hisa used the newly repaired[^fn-repair] portal setup from "Of Course It's A Trap" to slip into Kalkhas's realm unnoticed. To that point, the realm isn't wasn't very much to look at. There were two "buildings", one of which was a large library filled with books that contained the memories of all the people Kalkhas has eaten[^fn-zoott] and Kalkhas himself. Kalkhas is actually just a really big tower with a bunch of teeth and eyes with two big holes in the sides that would let the arms out, though at first sighting they were safely tucked away and we were unaware of their existence. Beyond that there were a couple floating islands, and endless sky beyond them. The realm itself was basically deserted except for some far off demon riding on a wyvern and the aforementioned Kalkhas, who apparently was dreaming at the time which meant he couldn't spot us. I had expected to be engaged by demons almost immediately, but once I realized how few potential targets we had to deal with I felt our chances of success were drastically improved.

Naturally we chose the tower as the best point to put down the portal device to dump Extinction into this place and flew on some griffons over to it, trying to angle ourselves to be in view of the wyvern rider in the distance as little as possible. Which thankfully worked, though once Hisa landed and started setting up the portal the wyvern rider started moving directly back to Kalkhas. Landing also immediately told us that this was Kalkhas, because beneath our feet on the top of the tower was actually a glass floor that gave a direct look into what was probably Kalkhas's brain. Yea, wild. The only thing stopping me from ripping him apart right then and there was some glass and fleshy walls. Regardless, from what I could tell this was less of the incoming demon being aware of our presence and more just a general patrol route, but that could easily change and this had to be dealt with. Solomon took me onto his griffon and made us invisible, which allowed us to fly over to the wyvern, get above it, and get a good surprise attack on both wyvern and rider. I stepped off the griffon as it hung above the wyvern, took my sword in both hands, and swooped in with lightning at the wyvern's unarmored wings.

AND I FUCKING NAILED IT. HELL YEA I DID. One good god damn pass, the wyvern is FUCKED. Fucked up wing, already no longer capable of maintaining flight and will careen into one of the islands far below us soon. But it's still kind of sort of not really flying and that sure as hell isn't going to stay that way as long as I'm around. The wyvern nearly hits me as it flails and shrieks, BUT IT CAN'T HIT ME! APEX PREDATOR, BIG AS A BUILDING, BORN AND BRED TO KILL AND IT JUST CAN'T FUCKING TOUCH ME. SECOND PASS, WING IS SUPER FUCKED, WYVERN CAN'T FLY, DOWN TO THE ISLAND BABY! WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO! CALL ME THE WRYMSLAYER BABY!

That fucking thing isn't flying ever again, and it's not like the rider could fly on their own so they're fucked too. Yam got underneath me with the griffon and grabbed me as I fell. Around that same time, Hisa had joined us. The portal was more of a "set up and forget" sort of thing, so by the time Hisa did join us Extinction was breaking into the realm. Kalkhas by this time was very awake by - owing to the portal device starting its activation and his one lone bodyguard getting bodied. And then we just left. Extinction made into the realm and the two started ripping each other apart immediately. That part was very satisfying to see; Extinction scored a crippling blow in the first few shots, and while we exited before the fight was well and truly over I suspect that Kalkhas is dead, and Extinction, though perhaps wounded, is still there. It was strange, seeing what was probably a mixture of raw magic and literal memories spill into the air as Kalkhas was wounded, but satisfying all the time. All three of us made it out of the realm with all we had wanted and more.

[^fn-plans]: From what I could tell they revolved around revenge, revenge, revenge, and perhaps taking over of the "family" business
[^fn-death]: Probably not the actual concept itself but it's the closest I can describe it. Deaths that should have happened but didn't, given actual form.
[^fn-kill]: As far as I can tell, anyway. It never really tried to make contact with us, nor the other way around.
[^fn-hisa]: While Calypso was generally untrustworthy in their R&D department, generally speaking I can trust Hisa to do a proper job.
[^fn-repair]: From "Of Course It's A Trap", the pylon setup I damaged previously.
[^fn-zoott]: Zoott's memories being one of these eaten things. Solomon insisted on retrieving them, and did. Zoott offered thanks to all those who partook of the expedition, though I didn't feel like I deserved such thanks given I advocated we focus purely on our primary objective.