---
layout: post
title: Saved by the Bat
adventure_set: Blood Cult
adventure_number: 11
post_number: 1
---

Sarea, a Sylvari whom I am a friend of, has turned into a fledgling investigator. One of these most recent investigations was into a series of murders and attempted murders that fall under the general classification of "weird". From what I was told the victim's death was via exsanguination with no obvious wounds and then strung up on lamp posts in Lion's Arch. The murders were occurring rather frequently in the last few months and they mirrored a series of murders that took place in Lion's Arch some 100 or so years ago. That last part is what piqued my interest in the whole affair, thinking perhaps there's a blood stealing Lich in Lion's Arch or something like it. For the most part I was busy with other affairs, Vicotis and Kalkhas and whatever else I happened to be doing, so I generally let this fly under my radar while Sarea and her associate - Vilora - did their thing. I offered advice on the side but they seemed to have everything handled until they came to me wanting my help. They had more or less tracked down where the murderer was located - in the caves underneath and around Lion's Arch[^fn-depths] - and wanted me to help take them down. Well really what they wanted as an insurance policy wherein I would be "on call" in case anything bad happened and they needed rescuing if said bad thing was more than they could handle. I imagined myself sitting outside the cave entrance while they went inside, probably reading a book or taking a nap.

It didn't quite turn out that way. I had several problems with their approach, chiefly that they didn't know what exactly they were up against. There was some understanding that there was a humanoid opponent that apparently had the power to take people's blood, but anything else was entirely an unknown. Not how equipped this person or thing was, not its capabilities, friends it might have, et cetera. They were practically going in blind, and by extension so was I. Those concerns were voiced, first by others and then by me, but in the end they went and I went with them, opting not to be the rescue party so I could just handle this myself and go home. And once the journey into the cave system really got started I very quickly realized that sitting outside the cave entrance wasn't going to be a thing anyway because fuck me this was a long haul through tight corridors of solid stone of which some were filled with stagnant water. I hated it so god damn much. I've read so many stories about sieges where people end up fighting in these tunnels and the sheer brutality of it is blood curdling. And now I was living it, so that's great.

Eventually we found where our "target" was, which proved immediately several things. One, it was targets, not target. Hooded up cultists, in fact[^fn-cultists]. Most of them were milling about in the back chanting some shit I didn't bother to listen to, but there was a line at the front of this ampitheater type area that was stabbing themselves or something and depositing a bunch of blood into a central bowl. The bowl then fed into a bunch of lines in the stone that split and resembled a tree that filled the rest of ampitheater. We were standing on a little ledge some twenty feet above them to view the whole thing, so we had a fairly good look at the entire ampitheater. What we didn't have a good look at, until Sarea used her goggles with built in low light vision, was the massive bat hanging on the stalactites. Oh no. I made an educated and obviously correct assumption that this thing was the reason behind the murders and what the cultists were giving blood to. This was now an actual problem that I needed to deal with. The second of those proven things was that I was woefully underequipped to deal with a gaggle of twenty-five or so humans *and* a big monster with wings. I had a sword, a gun with some null-field activating bullets, and a last resort weapon that would break my arm on use, but potentially hurt something very, very, very badly. I had no proper way to deal with all of these things at once, and I didn't and still don't entirely trust the combat prowess of Sarea and Vilora.

Going back wasn't a real option either unfortunately. I surmised that when the blood tree thing filled up bad things would probably happen and it needed to be stopped before it got to that point. Looking at the big ass bat, it definitely didn't see us yet which gave us first strike capabilities which would be critical to not ending up in a full on slugging match. I probably couldn't kill it in one shot, but taking out its wings was an available option and that seemed like the best bet. I briefly conversed with the Sarea and Vilora and then we attacked. That part went a lot like taking down the wyvern[^fn-wyvern]; One good shot at its wing and the thing went careening into the damn ground like a brick, taking some of the ceiling with it. But it wasn't a very big drop so it was still alive, if wounded. And even worse than that, the fucking thing *healed* faster than I've ever seen anything heal before. Like holy shit, you thought Necromancers could heal people up quick. Not this fucking thing - it ate some of the cultists once I had to back off for a moment and that wing was healed. The moment I saw that shit though, I knew we were in some absurd amounts of danger and it was time for the Crazy Bullshit option.

The Crazy Bullshit option was a woven sleeve of runes on my left arm that, upon activation, would throw a rock spike about triple my height at high speeds at whatever I was aiming at. Breaks my arm on use pretty badly, but considering the circumstances of "If this thing isn't killed it one shot it is going to come back no problem" it was the best and frankly only shot I was going to get. Unless I was willing to waste my damn time evading this fucking thing while I killed every single cultist and got rid of their blood, which I sure as hell wasn't with how fast the bat was moving. I hammered that son of a bitch with that rock spike as hard as I could. And god damn did it fucking tear that bat apart - Straight through the stomach and up into the ribcage. And then the bat ate some more cultists. There wasn't really more I could do after that; My greatest weapon at that time was blown, and while I threw myself into the bat's wound[^fn-wound] to stop myself from being attacked again, I couldn't stay there because of some fuck ass stomach acid. Retreat was quickly turning into the only option until a bigger bat broke in from the ceiling, killed the one I was fighting, took its body, and left.

Yea. That happened. A bigger bat broke in from the ceiling, killed the smaller one, and took it as some prized bat trophy or whatever. I was on my last legs by the time that happened so I suppose I can't complain about the timely intervention.

That more or less ends the series of events for this entry. Categorically, I underperformed here[^fn-underperformed]. While I went up against a big bat monster thing that heals and survived, my defeat was obvious. I probably could have gone back through the tunnels where the bat wouldn't be able to follow me, but that's not a sure thing and getting both Sarea and Vilora out in the same manner was likewise, not a sure thing. The intervention of the bigger bat effectively saved us. On the more tactical side of things, the null field bullets were rather useful, but I think I need more of them targeted on the same individual creature for a better effect. I also have few ways to sufficiently harm larger creatures like that bat more than once. The sword and bullet are good, but I think I'm going to start carrying fragmentation explosives. Grenades, probably, unless I can think of something better. A more magical approach might also be warranted, but I'm not sure on that end yet. The grenades would also be nice for clearing out large groups - like those cultists. More investigation needs to done to clear up this now blatantly obvious blind spot in my arsenal before I go down there again to sort this all out properly.


[^fn-depths]: Not the Depths depths, but definitely below the surface and heading Depthsward.
[^fn-cultists]: Cultists, yes. Hood toting robe wearing chant singing cultists. Underneath Lion's Arch.
[^fn-wyvern]: From Wyrmslayer Extraordinaire.
[^fn-wound]: Yes, I threw myself into the bat's wound to stop it from attacking me. It worked on a Chakk once and it almost worked here.
[^fn-underperformed]: Something about saying I underperformed in the context of fighting a big ass bat monster effectively one on one is funny to me. Still true, but also funny.