---
layout: post
title: Good Morning Janthir
adventure_set: Janthir
adventure_number: 11
post_number: 1
---

Recovery from the injuries sustained fighting the bat were troublesome but nothing I hadn't encountered before. When it came about that I was healed for a few weeks, Zoott approached me with what relatively simple job of protection in the field. A new type of elemental had been located up north somewhere past Divinity's Reach, and he was collecting a team that would defend him and engage the elemental to gather data. The team ended up being just me, Zoott, and a human elementalist by the name of Wynn. At the time I wasn't aware of the combat capabilities of Zoott or Wynn, so I went into this with the assumption that I would be doing most of the heavy lifting and taking most of the risk. Nothing too out of the ordinary to be honest, and when you hear "fight an elemental so I can get data" you don't think it's going to be one of the toughest fights of your life. But naturally the more I learned about what was going on, what we[^fn-we] knew about the elemental, and what we didn't know made me rethink what I should expect rather quickly.

In the beginning I assumed this would be a series of light engagements against small and relatively weak targets. It quickly became apparent that this was sure as hell not going to be the case, and we were instead going to engage something incredibly lethal. The classification of "elemental" was clearly off because these things are just chock full of so many different kinds of magic, of which the plurality is stuff from Torment. These are demons, and particularly deadly ones too because their blood[^fn-blood] infects the minds, souls, and bodies of everything it touches. And not only that, it was a "rot elemental" which meant it rotted everything it came into contact with, using corpses and whatever else was nearby as a shield for a relatively vulnerable core. Yea. Elemental, sure. But I thought you know what, maybe I'll go and fight this thing anyway. Wynn was going, Zoott was going, and I figured both of them combined would get absolutely thrashed by this thing so I felt a moral obligation to make sure that didn't happen. I resolved to engage the target from a distance as best as possible, wear it down with a variety of magical attacks and bullets, and then go in for a quick strike once it was vulnerable to kill the thing before it got a chance to do likewise to anyone else. The lead up to the actual day of was spent gathering tools and figuring out methods I could use to enact this plan.

The day of, when we first entered the area we knew it was in, the smell of rot was overwhelming. Thankfully I understood that "rot elemental" meant rot which meant a horrible awful smell. I donned my gas mask and hooked myself up to a small internal air supply to avoid having to put up with that, while the others just kind of dealt with it. Sucked for them. A short search of the area led us to the corpse of an adult troll that was just absolutely eviscerated, presumably by our quarry. I decided to stay in the distance, figuring that we weren't aware of what this thing does to bodies and it could be laying in wait for anything to come nearby to inspect it. Zoott went off to poke around the corpse and Wynn stayed kind of in between both of us, but a good while later after nothing happened I went to look at the corpse myself. The troll was generally bludgeoned to death, and the chest cavity was pulled open[^fn-open]. All around it was the same blood that I was informed about previously, this pinkish purplish yellowish orangish... Stuff. It was certainly interesting in a horrid, awful sort of sense, but refocusing back on finding the target led me to trying to feel around with earth magic to see if it was burrowing anywhere.

And it was, and it immediately came up underneath me and flung me high into the air before it engaged the other two. Thanks to Zoott's magic I didn't just careen straight into the ground, and then I quickly got to work once I touched down. At the time this was happening the creature had engaged Wynn, and I reckoned that I couldn't wear this thing down at range because Wynn was now in active mortal danger. So I shot myself around with lightning and took one good strike at the joint where its leg joined the rest of the body, destroying it completely and at least temporarily making it immobile. I've learned to keep moving after you make a strike though, and I disengaged immediately afterwards. After I had gained some distance I noticed that the core was exposed through the hole where that leg used to connect. Apparently these outer shells weren't particularly strong, or perhaps the joint was weak or something else of that nature. The hole was too small to exploit by anything at a distance, but if I threw out my entire plan of wearing it down and got in close I could probably end this here and now. So I shot my shot. I pulled out one of my high explosive grenades, pulled the pin, and got in close with some teleporting. I stuffed the grenade into the creature's core through the hole, turned, and teleported away. It flailed, attacked things for a couple seconds and then it exploded and died. Job done, Hell yea. My arm was immediately covered in that blood I mentioned previously but I made the bet that my coat could survive long enough for me to strip it off and I would remain safe.

Unfortunately the thing's blood ate through my coat a lot faster than I thought it would and before I could even get the coat off my arm started rotting away. It's an extremely uncomfortable feeling, seeing and feeling your skin, muscle, arteries, and veins just slough off your body. Okay, contingency plan. Some of the bullets of Sperra's designs are null field bullets, and when I determined to go into the field I loaded my rifle with alternating typical and null field rounds, assuming that anti-magic would come in handy. So I took the rifle, expended the normal bullet into the ground, and then turned the gun on my arm to put a null field bullet into it. Also, around the same time something started talking in my head, which I assume was the something that owned or controlled the thing I just killed. It seemed disinterested in me, but naturally when confronted with something that's probably leagues above my own I start hurling verbal abuse at it[^fn-hurl]. At least the bullet worked, the rotting stopped in its tracks. I did just shoot myself in the forearm though, which wasn't great, but the alternative of turning into a decaying sludge was appreciably worse than losing a chunk of my forearm. I was ferried back to Zoott's base camp not long after and was taken up by resident medics and doctors. The medics and doctors at base camp don't know what to do with me. Healing is taking a long time, and while they assure me they have this handled and know exactly what they're doing, I'm not so sure. Healing is taking extraordinarily long. My arm continues to heal and decay, and I feel sick, constantly. Whatever this thing is, it is holding onto me tight. Let's just hope it doesn't end up killing me.



[^fn-we]: We meaning Zoott and his collection of wizard friends, who I don't have a particularly high opinion of all things considered.
[^fn-blood]: I call it blood for convenience, but it's much less actual blood and more of some kind of viscous fluid that seems to surround the core. What exactly its purpose is other than protection is unknown to me.
[^fn-open]: Like violently ripped open by something pulling it apart without the use of cutting tools.
[^fn-hurl]: This may or may not have also contributed to the decision to shoot myself in the arm to thoroughly show that I meant business and I'm coming for it next. Now that I think back on it I don't even think it bothered to stick around for that but whatever[^fn-hurl2].
[^fn-hurl2]: I'm not sure where I picked up the 'scream at things more powerful than you' and the more I think about it maybe it's not the greatest idea ever. Not going to stop me though.