---
layout: post
title: Inquest screw up part 832
adventure_set: Miscellaneous
adventure_number: 2
post_number: 3
---

In the far southeast, in the Alchemy forsaken lands known as the Deldrimor Front, there are a number of dredge communities that have survived the battle against Kralkatorrik and have, for some equally Alchemy forsaken reason, decided that living there was still a good idea. Far be it from me to question the personal choices of someone living in the deep remote reaches of the Shiverpeaks where no man nor beast dwell I guess. One of these dredge communities was unable to properly defend itself and ended up under the control of an Inquest krewe named Petrol Krewe. Yes, I know, these Inquest were particularly imaginative in their naming scheme. I'm not sure why, but I guess the fact that the Inquest had taken over the site and effectively enslaved the dredge to drill for oil made it socially and morally acceptable for another, unnamed group to send someone to take over the site. This someone was actually two people, myself and Shortt[^fn-calypso]. Originally I was supposed to come with a norn, but after a variety of complaints about the lack of anything particularly good to say to him Shortt was chosen to be my companion. The main overarching goal was to get rid of the Inquest with both the dredge workers and the facility itself more or less intact. There were concerns on my end that this was less of a liberation and more of a change in management, so it was agreed between me and Shortt that if possible the dredge would just so happen to escape the facility and go wherever they wanted.

Shortt was actually the right choice for this because of his capability of somehow faking identities for both of us to get us into the facility. I'm not sure exactly how he did this or what connections he used for it but infiltration was, to me, a much better idea than running inside, shooting all of the Inquest, and trying not to do the same to the dredge. With any luck we could force the Inquest at the facility to surrender quickly enough that the dredge would follow along. I was Loupp, an assistant to Shortt's identity, Inspector Cukk from the Thaumacore Inquiry Center. I chose both of these names myself and every time Shortt's name was said I felt a fuzzy warm feeling. The plan was for us to get inside the facility, Shortt would try and fuck around with the ventilation shafts to knock everyone out or something, and I would focus on destroying any methods of communication with the outside world to make sure no other Inquest would be tipped off as to what was going on and potentially sending someone to come help.

When the time came we boarded a small helicopter and arrived at the site in the very late hours of the night so we could approach unnoticed. There were two dredge guards standing in the freezing cold just outside the main entrance - a mountainside vault-like door - and with our identities, access was granted through the proper applications of threats of disciplinary action. Inside it became apparent that the intelligence suggesting the dredge were slaves was accurate. Their dwellings were rather meager, with a small kitchen unit, some group showers, and shitty bunks. At once Shortt announced his presence and all of the dredge[^fn-dredge] lined up against the wall to stand at attention. That all was going smoothly until a voice spoke through the walls and asked for identification. It became quickly apparent that it wasn't one of the Inquest operatives but rather an artificial intelligence that seemed to have some sort of control over the facility, by the name of Lasset-1. When identification was given, mine was accepted and Shortt's wasn't. I still don't really know why this happened, maybe he fucked up I don't know. A massive door in the back of the large chamber where everything was, was summarily opened and Shortt was removed by some very, very tall and tough looking golems while I was invited inside. This is exactly where I decided things were going wrong, and while Shortt insisted I finish the "inspection" as he was being dragged back to the entrance, my confidence was starting to wane. Refusing, unfortunately, meant blowing possibly my only chance to get inside without a fight, so I went. A golem that Shortt had brought with him, which I will refer to as 'Y', followed me[^fn-golem].

I was greeted with a tour, and absolutely no Inquest at all anywhere. It was just one hallway after another, looking more and more decrepit the further I walked in. Lasset-1 lit up displays on the way to explain to me the illustrious and glorious history of the site's founder. Riveting, I'm sure, but I was far more focused on checking my corners to see if anything might jump out and try to eat me. Which nothing did, which was kind of nice and nerveracking at the same time. A brief conversation ensued wherein I inquired about the state of the facility, then the facility's main purpose, and then finally any secondary purposes to the facility.Around the time I asked that question I found myself in a room with a grated floor, where busted steam pipes were spilling fog to obscure just about everything beyond five feet in front of me. You can probably guess by that point I was ready to start ripping people and things the fuck apart because oh my god this is the most obvious looking trap ever, but just like the hallways descending further into the facility, nothing attacked me there either. I did, however, stumble upon a whole myriad of cages which contained the desiccated remains of various animals. And also the bodies of Inquest agents strewn about the ground.

I kind of started to suspect something was up when I noticed that the facility was falling into disrepair. For all the stupid shit the Inquest does they're generally good about maintaining a functioning work environment. And since I hadn't seen any staff up to that point I was starting to think that there were never any Inquest here at all, and the dredge were overseen by an artificial intelligence with a couple golems as backup. It would be efficient from a personnel perspective. Finding the bodies of what looked like the full staff of the facility strewn about a holding area - with each one having theirs spines forcefully removed and brains subsequently scooped out - obviously made me rethink that line of thought. The new obvious answer was that the facility was once staffed and Lasset-1 had them all killed for some as of yet unknown reason, possibly for the same reason I too would eventually lose my mind and extract some brains because of the absurd remoteness of this facility. And once I learned that aforementioned secondary objective the pieces started to fall into place.

The oil drilling was a disguise. Sure there was an actual oil drilling operation going on, but the supposed secondary purpose for the facility was by my estimation the actual purpose[^fn-purpose]. And because the Inquest can't go two days without fucking up in colossal, horrible, incredibly deadly ways, Lasset-1 turned on the researchers and stole their spines and brains presumably because its dedication to that research had led it down some twisted paths. Shortt's golem took a quick tally of the dead and informed me they had been dead for one or two months while Lasset-1 beckoned me deeper into the facility on the tour. At this point, I had two options. One, I could go back the way I came and fight two known threats, large golems. Two, I could descend deeper and try to disable Lasset-1, though I had no idea what else was down there and if disabling this AI was even a possibility. What I really wanted to do was go back up and fight the golems, then come back later with more backup and golem killing equipment. But, I couldn't guarantee that whatever killed the facility staff wouldn't come after me on the way up. And beyond that, the lives of the dredge were likely forfeit if I did make it out. There was no guarantee that Lasset-1 wouldn't liquidate them. Eventually I decided that there were too many unknowns and too many risks associated with going back up. The only path I could take was down into the belly of the proverbial beast.

I waited for Golem Y to complete its investigation and we descended further into the facility until I eventually came upon another one of these massive rooms completely fogged up by steam pipes running at full blast while also being broken. There were holding tanks, tables, delicate scientific equipment and various other devices that were by and large completely smashed and tossed around in the haphazard way you tend to smash and throw things around when shit is in the process of going down. Wires and pipes, a lot of them frayed or busted, were always everywhere. All is all in was exactly what you wanted to see and the sight of all of it just made me feel so welcome as a treasured guest. I almost thought about suggesting to Lasset-1 that if she just joined me at the corporate owned water cooler[^fn-cooler] we could sort this all out. She then informed me that the tour was now over, please have a good day, and do not resist. As my non-existent hopes for a peaceful conclusion were dashed so ruthlessly I prepared for the fight that was about to happen. With some air magic I put a great wind into the chamber to blow the fog away and reveal everything inside.

Lasset-1 was a big fucking golem, though instead of a head it was a brain case filled with several floating brains hooked up to wires. Probably the Inquest that were laying up in that holding bay. Anyway Golem Y apparently lost its fucking mind and charged the thing while I shot the tank. The bullet cracked the hell out of the glass, but didn't quite seal the deal and then Golem Y was summarily crushed after giving a rousing speech detailing the unforgivable flaws of attempting to weave metal and flesh together. On one hand I'm rolling my eyes because this thing thought it could take on a golem that was, I want to say, about 20 feet tall. But on the other hand Golem Y was a proper badass, chock full of such grit and willpower that it stared death in the face and soldiered on out of pure spite. If it were still alive today I would become its sidekick. Too bad it's super dead though. Its death, however, wasn't entirely in vain. It gave Lasset-1 an order on the charge, and Lasset-1 complied. Of course it wasn't exactly the most useful command ever - sing a song - but it did identify Lasset-1's fatal flaw. Commands had to be obeyed, every last one. Granted I was far too busy throwing myself forward in a blaze of lightning to put my sword into and through the glass tank to finish it off to be able to abuse this newfound solution. But Shortt, who then descended from the ventilation shafts that hung in the ceiling of the container, did pick up on this rather quickly. I learned later that he gathered the dredge and told them to stay away from the facility so we could fight whatever was down here without risking them as immediate casualties[^fn-casualties]. He then traveled through the ventilation ducts to get to me.

After spilling the brain matter onto the floor Lasset-1, who was not brought low by this, started spinning around really fucking hard and knocked me straight into the ground on a glancing blow. It is hard to overstate just how hard that glancing blow hit me. And then slamming into a metal floor certainly didn't make that any better, so I was down for a few seconds at minimum. I switched to water magic to try and get myself back up to fighting capability, but Shortt by that time was starting to shout out commands[^fn-commands] that Lasset-1 was then forced to act on, and I joined in. The affair then quickly resolved itself in our favor.

That more or less ends the fighting parts of this. After some short self-healing I was able to get on my feet, and then after a quick inspection to ensure that Lasset-1 was indeed no more, we discussed next steps and what would happen after. There isn't really many more interesting things to note here. I scavenged what I could from Lasset's body, the dredge were thankfully evacuated over the next couple of days back to their families, and the oil facility was then taken over by the client who first ordered its capture. I'm not particularly interested in what happens to it now, and from what I've heard it's now going to be staffed entirely by golems. Though we'll see how long the Inquest let something like this stay that way. I, myself, have to start looking into better anti-armor capabilities. The sword and revolver just do not cut it against these kinds of targets, and earth magic unfortunately falls into the same category when the target is hard enough. I'll have to figure out something. Also this is just more evidence on the pile that true thinking AI is a terrible fucking idea. Gardenbot is never having its intelligence upgraded beyond the capacity to tend to vines. If he ever starts talking me, I'm obliterating every last part of him.

[^fn-calypso]: From Calypso. He worked with some of our efforts of the Tarot sections. Crude and crass and unserious, but surprisingly capable and intelligent. Asura.
[^fn-dredge]: One of whom, unfortunately, was dead, and none of the dredge seemed to particularly care.
[^fn-golem]: Considering it now, a golem like this for myself actually sounds like a really good idea. I'd be able to offload important computational, diagnostic, or even just recording tasks onto the golem. Granted, given my line of work it might not survive the experience and they're probably expensive. Hero work isn't exactly lucrative either.
[^fn-purpose]: That being some vague amalgamation of psionic-biological research, Inquest style.
[^fn-cooler]: Along with the water and cups and also you, knowing the Inquest.
[^fn-casualties]: I'm unsure as to whether or not Shortt dropped the disguise and revealed our true intentions, their liberation, or merely kept up the act because it made the dredge compliant.
[^fn-commands]: While Golem Y forced it to sing, Shortt and then myself forced it to tear out important components, like logic centers and power crystals.